15:53:38 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #json-ld
15:53:42 <RRSAgent> logging to https://www.w3.org/2024/07/10-json-ld-irc
15:53:42 <Zakim> RRSAgent, make logs Public
15:53:43 <Zakim> please title this meeting ("meeting: ..."), gkellogg
15:53:51 <gkellogg> meeting: JSON-LD CG
15:54:01 <gkellogg> agend: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/08563546-30fd-497a-ac16-77f96e96e8c0/20240710T120000/
15:54:12 <gkellogg> chair: gkellogg
15:54:14 <gkellogg> present+
15:54:16 <gkellogg> scribe+
15:54:22 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
15:54:22 <Zakim> I see nothing on the agenda
15:54:35 <gkellogg> agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/08563546-30fd-497a-ac16-77f96e96e8c0/20240710T120000/
15:54:36 <agendabot> clear agenda
15:54:36 <agendabot> agenda+ Announcements and Introductions
15:54:36 <agendabot> agenda+ YAML-LD
15:54:36 <agendabot> agenda+ CBOR-LD
15:54:36 <agendabot> agenda+ JSON-LD Issue Discussion
15:54:38 <agendabot> agenda+ Open Discussion
15:54:41 <agendabot> agenda+ Next call
15:54:44 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
15:54:44 <Zakim> agendum 1 -- Announcements and Introductions -- taken up [from agendabot]
15:56:11 <anatoly-scherbakov> anatoly-scherbakov has joined #json-ld
15:58:26 <gkellogg_> gkellogg_ has joined #json-ld
16:00:21 <bigbluehat> present+
16:01:45 <gkellogg_> zakim, who's here?
16:01:45 <Zakim> Present: gkellogg, bigbluehat
16:01:47 <Zakim> On IRC I see gkellogg_, anatoly-scherbakov, RRSAgent, Zakim, gkellogg, bigbluehat, TallTed, dlehn, puck, hadleybeeman, raboof_, csarven, Tpt, Teukka, cm, sknebel, agendabot, gb,
16:01:47 <Zakim> ... pchampin, dlongley
16:02:29 <niklasl> niklasl has joined #json-ld
16:02:32 <TallTed> present+
16:03:17 <pchampin> present+
16:03:21 <gkellogg_> zakim, close item
16:03:21 <Zakim> I don't understand 'close item', gkellogg_
16:03:23 <dlehn> present+
16:03:27 <gkellogg_> zakim, close item 1
16:03:27 <Zakim> agendum 1, Announcements and Introductions, closed
16:03:28 <Zakim> I see 5 items remaining on the agenda; the next one is
16:03:28 <Zakim> 2. YAML-LD [from agendabot]
16:03:32 <gkellogg_> zakim, next item
16:03:50 <Zakim> I see 4 items remaining on the agenda; the next one is
16:03:50 <Zakim> 3. CBOR-LD [from agendabot]
16:03:59 <gkellogg_> zakim, next item
16:03:59 <Zakim> agendum 3 -- CBOR-LD -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:04:01 <dlehn> q+
16:04:02 <niklasl> present+
16:04:38 <gkellogg_> dlehn: We haven't worked on the spec too much, but are working on our implementation. We need to find time to update the spec.
16:04:45 <gkellogg_> ack dlehn
16:04:58 <TallTed> s|agend: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/08563546-30fd-497a-ac16-77f96e96e8c0/20240710T120000/||
16:05:15 <gkellogg_> dlehn: We're moving some things forward and have a PR pending.
16:05:28 <gkellogg_> ... Needs IANA registration.
16:06:18 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: probably a WG item; needs to be in the spec.
16:06:32 <gkellogg_> dlehn: We have other IDs, not yet registered, that need to go in.
16:06:40 <anatoly-scherbakov> anatoly-scherbakov has joined #json-ld
16:06:53 <anatoly-scherbakov> present+
16:07:21 <gkellogg_> ... Part of the binary format.
16:07:43 <dlehn> https://github.com/json-ld/cbor-ld-spec/pull/28
16:07:43 <gb> https://github.com/json-ld/cbor-ld-spec/pull/28 -> Pull Request 28 Add support for different CBOR tags to be used for CBOR-LD to identify required application context maps. (by wes-smith)
16:08:33 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: do we need to think about moving registries into the w3c github project.
16:09:10 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: this is an issue for the WG to take up.
16:10:45 <gkellogg_> ... Both YAML-LD and CBOR-LD should move to the w3c space.
16:11:52 <gkellogg_> ... Something for the WG to take up.
16:12:11 <gkellogg_> dlehn: Doesn't really matter where it is as a practical matter.
16:14:32 <gkellogg_> topic: YAML-LD
16:15:17 <gkellogg_> zakim, who's here?
16:15:17 <Zakim> Present: gkellogg, bigbluehat, TallTed, pchampin, dlehn, niklasl, anatoly-scherbakov
16:15:18 <Zakim> On IRC I see niklasl, gkellogg_, RRSAgent, Zakim, bigbluehat, TallTed, dlehn, puck, hadleybeeman, raboof_, csarven, Tpt, Teukka, cm, sknebel, agendabot, gb, pchampin, dlongley
16:15:28 <gkellogg_> q?
16:15:55 <gkellogg_> anatoly-scherbakov: I created an issue on JSON-LD to call on a better definition on JSON serialization.
16:16:05 <gkellogg_> ... Calling attention to the group.
16:16:31 <gkellogg_> ... I also implemented more tests for YAML-LD, including YAML-LD contexts.
16:16:34 <dlehn> q+ to mention a CBOR-LD paper (after current topic)
16:17:30 <gkellogg_> ... I'd like to ask dlehn on what the plans are for PyLd? Is it actively developed? What are the next steps?
16:17:44 <bigbluehat> q+ to say a bit more about PyLD
16:17:49 <gkellogg_> dlehn: This is an issue of not having enough time for all the things we're doing.
16:18:17 <gkellogg_> ... We'd like to make it easier for people to assist, but haven't figured out the time.
16:18:38 <gkellogg_> ... We're seeing other pressure to update it.
16:18:56 <gkellogg_> ... For example, the safe mode proposal that we feel is important.
16:20:19 <gkellogg_> ... Needs an issue for behavior.
16:20:49 <gkellogg_> ... Our JavaScript code is probably too involved.
16:21:36 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: can you create a tracking issue in json-ld-api?
16:23:07 <gkellogg_> dlehn: There are some test suite cases that need to be fixed for this.
16:23:22 <gkellogg_> ... The Python and JavaScript versions have diverged.
16:23:50 <gkellogg_> TallTed: Don't think you need to put in everything. Some words to trigger your memory are sufficient.
16:23:56 <gkellogg_> ack bigbluehat
16:23:56 <Zakim> bigbluehat, you wanted to say a bit more about PyLD
16:24:31 <gkellogg_> bigbluehat: We've been working with the active py community who depends on PyLd.
16:24:54 <gkellogg_> ... We having a growing community of interest, which will make it more of a priority to address.
16:25:20 <gkellogg_> ... It impacts Verifiable Credentials implementations.
16:25:42 <gkellogg_> topic: CBOR-LD
16:25:44 <gkellogg_> ack dlehn
16:25:44 <Zakim> dlehn, you wanted to mention a CBOR-LD paper (after current topic)
16:26:02 <dlehn> https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.04398
16:26:20 <gkellogg_> dlehn: While I was looking into things, I found this paper which seems pertinent.
16:27:02 <gkellogg_> ... Probalby worth talking with them.
16:27:39 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: the WG should invite them to participate.
16:27:50 <gkellogg_> q?
16:28:41 <gkellogg_> TallTed: Whoever contacts the CBL authors, they should be pointed to the Web Of Things CG and WG.
16:29:32 <TallTed> WoT CG — https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/wot/
16:29:32 <TallTed> WoT WG — https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/wot/
16:28:05 <gkellogg_> zakim, next item
16:28:05 <Zakim> agendum 4 -- JSON-LD Issue Discussion -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:30:04 <gkellogg_> subtopic: Status of charter update
16:30:05 <pchampin> q+
16:30:22 <bigbluehat> https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld-wg-charter/issues
16:30:28 <gkellogg_> bigbluehat: No progress. I had posted an issue on the charter repo.
16:30:34 <gkellogg_> ack pchampin
16:31:05 <gkellogg_> pchampin: I did some changes to the charter to address pending issues. (bigblue hat, please review).
16:31:31 <bigbluehat> q+
16:31:32 <gkellogg_> ... In my view, when we solve this pending PR we can move forward with the charter.
16:31:32 <anatoly-scherbakov> anatoly-scherbakov has joined #json-ld
16:31:36 <anatoly-scherbakov> present+
16:31:54 <gkellogg_> bigbluehat: The WoT WG is listed, but not the CG.
16:32:15 <gkellogg_> ... Please check for other groups that should be listed.
16:32:46 <gkellogg_> https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/84/views/1
16:33:07 <gkellogg_> subtopic: issue w3c/json-ld-api#603
16:33:08 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/603 -> Issue 603 toRdf() and flatten() API require extractAllScripts to default to true (by gkellogg) [spec:enhancement] [needs discussion] [ErratumRaised]
16:34:28 <anatoly-scherbakov> dlehn I wouldn't like to distract everyone as this is probably off-topic, but the issue I am facing now with python-yaml-ld is that I am redoing a lot of stuff that pyld already is doing. Basically, pyld already implements everything that's needed except a special DocumentLoader. So ideally, it feels like there shouldn't be a separate library for
16:34:28 <anatoly-scherbakov> YAML-LD at all, it should be just a feature of pyld. But in addition to that I would like to see improvements like pytest-based testing framework and better mypy/typing support. So I am still working on this as a separate implementation but it, kind of, feels wrong.
16:34:40 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: probably need to update the API to default to true, but unfortunate.
16:34:49 <pchampin> q+
16:34:54 <gkellogg_> ack pchampin
16:34:56 <bigbluehat> q-
16:35:17 <gkellogg_> pchampin: Do we have text which is inconsistent with tests>
16:35:22 <gkellogg_> s/tests>/tests?/
16:37:45 <pchampin> sounds good to me
16:39:11 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: my thought is to change API for toRDF but not flatten.
16:39:27 <gkellogg_> TallTed: I think tests are editable, if incorrect.
16:40:25 <gkellogg_> ... We should fix the test suite, if its wrong.
16:40:59 <gkellogg_> ... Implementations may need to be changed, but this should have been reported as a bug.
16:41:01 <pchampin> that's what we have in rdf-canon: https://w3c.github.io/rdf-canon/spec/#h-note-3
16:41:48 <gkellogg_> proposal: update tests for flatten to assume extractAllScripts defaults to false. Update toRdf() API to set default for extractAllScripts to true.
16:42:15 <gkellogg_> +1
16:42:17 <anatoly-scherbakov> +1
16:42:20 <TallTed> +1
16:42:26 <pchampin> +1
16:42:36 <niklasl> +0 (haven't thought it through fully)
16:42:54 <dlehn> +0
16:43:02 <niklasl> Probably makes sense; so +ITY ;)
16:43:05 <gkellogg_> resolved: update tests for flatten to assume extractAllScripts defaults to false. Update toRdf() API to set default for extractAllScripts to true.
16:43:28 <gkellogg_> subtopic: issue w3c/json-ld-api#604
16:43:28 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/604 -> Issue 604 Using flatten() on HTML input having a single script element with an object with `@graph` results in named graph (by gkellogg) [spec:enhancement] [needs discussion] [ErratumRaised]
16:45:10 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: use @included instead of @graph if this is a problem.
16:45:32 <gkellogg_> proposal: No change to current behavior. Document issues in JSON-LD and YAML-LD
16:45:35 <gkellogg_> +1
16:45:44 <pchampin> +1
16:45:45 <TallTed> +1
16:46:02 <bigbluehat> +1
16:46:03 <dlehn> +0
16:46:06 <pchampin> q+
16:46:12 <gkellogg_> ack pchampin
16:46:30 <gkellogg_> resolved: No change to current behavior. Document issues in JSON-LD and YAML-LD
16:46:30 <niklasl> niklasl has joined #json-ld
16:47:12 <gkellogg_> pchampin: Looking at the issue, I realized that the Rust library for JSON-LD is not compliant. It does remove @graph using example input.
16:47:31 <gkellogg_> ... We might be missing a test about this case. I haven't had a chance to check yet.
16:48:43 <gkellogg_> ... I mostly copied the first JSON example which is just an array with an object using @context and @graph and nothing else.
16:49:37 <anatoly-scherbakov> anatoly-scherbakov has joined #json-ld
16:50:39 <gkellogg_> subtopic: issue w3c/json-ld-api#584
16:50:40 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/584 -> Issue 584 Unify document loading in Context Processing? (by helins) [spec:editorial] [ErratumRaised]
16:51:50 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: perhaps a chance to DRY up the text.
16:52:52 <gkellogg_> pchampin: I'm hesitant to extract the common functionality, so maybe just go for consistency so as not to disrupt the flow of the document.
16:50:39 <gkellogg_> subtopic: issue w3c/json-ld-api#605
16:53:55 <anatoly-scherbakov> The issue about JSON Serialization: https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/605
16:53:55 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/605 -> Issue 605 It is not clear enough what "JSON Serialization" is (by anatoly-scherbakov) [spec:editorial] [ErratumRaised]
16:55:15 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: perhaps extract the json serialization for responding to a content type request.
16:56:14 <anatoly-scherbakov> q+
16:56:19 <gkellogg_> ack anatoly-scherbakov
16:57:00 <gkellogg_> anatoly-scherbakov: We could specify a "serialize()" function to do this, if it takes a content type.
16:58:10 <pchampin> q+
16:58:14 <gkellogg_> ... The API can describe when to serialize.
16:58:52 <gkellogg_> ... I wanted to be sure that we agree that an expand function should return a datastructure, and not a serialization.
17:00:03 <gkellogg_> pchampin: I misunderstood what you said before, and agree that we should fix the API definitions.
17:00:31 <niklasl> Also agree to fix, but "do less". :)
17:00:31 <gkellogg_> ... I understand anatoly-scherbakov's concerns about how to define this, but also worry about what this could disrupt.
17:01:18 <gkellogg_> topic: Next call
17:01:18 <gkellogg_> gkellogg: Next meeting in two weeks is a WG meeting.
17:01:24 <gkellogg_> zakim, end meeting
17:01:24 <Zakim> As of this point the attendees have been gkellogg, bigbluehat, TallTed, pchampin, dlehn, niklasl, anatoly-scherbakov
17:01:26 <Zakim> RRSAgent, please draft minutes
