[10:00]	<manu1>	Agenda: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-linked-json/2012Jun/0071.html
[10:01]	-->|	voip-ld (~voip-ld@digitalbazaar.com) has joined #json-ld
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-00000043) is in the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-00000043) has joined the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Gregg Kellogg (SIP/10.0.1.18-00000044) has joined the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-00000046) has joined the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	<unknown> (IAX2/diamondcard-8039) has joined the conference.
[10:01]	-->|	niklasl (~neuron@gate.kb.se) has joined #json-ld
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000047) has joined the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/sip2sip.info-00000048) has joined the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/sip2sip.info-00000048) has left the conference.
[10:01]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/192.168.3.19-00000049) has joined the conference.
[10:02]	* tidoust	is probably unknown
[10:03]	* tidoust	in a noisy environment, will stay muted.
[10:03]	<manu1>	manu: Anything else we should discuss today?
[10:04]	<manu1>	gkellogg: Let's discuss .objectify() vs. .frame()
[10:04]	<manu1>	gkellogg: Markus wanted to look at ISSUE-120 again - expansion and @type
[10:04]	<dlongley-db>	manu: i also spoke with linclark, some of that info is in the jsonld irc channel
[10:04]	<manu1>	manu: I spoke w/ Lin Clark - she has an interesting use case that we should discuss.
[10:05]	<dlongley-db>	manu: let's discuss some of the issues that have come up before the w3c publication in the rdf working group
[10:05]	<manu1>	scribe: niklasl
[10:05]	<manu1>	Topic: Transition of documents to the RDF WG
[10:06]	<niklasl>	manu: we're pretty much set to go
[10:06]	<niklasl>	... bug the publication tool is buggy, so we can't get the FPWD out just yet...
[10:06]	<niklasl>	manu: then we need everyone to do their IPR coverage
[10:07]	<manu1>	https://dvcs.w3.org/hg/json-ld
[10:07]	<niklasl>	... we don't have a hg repo, but the W3C staff is ok with us mirroring the github repo into the w3c hg for the time being (specs, tests, website)
[10:08]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:08]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:08]	<mlnt>	q+
[10:08]	<voip-ld>	Added mlnt to the speaker queue: niklasl, mlnt
[10:08]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:08]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The next speaker is mlnt.
[10:09]	<niklasl>	manu: the IPR stuff means a blanket statement that one has no issues regarding patents when going forward
[10:10]	<niklasl>	... the editors/auhors in the community group must be ok with this from a copyright pov
[10:11]	<manu1>	ack mlnt
[10:11]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:11]	<niklasl>	manu: we must use the tool for this for the legal stuff to become valid
[10:12]	<niklasl>	Discussion about the w3c membership process...
[10:14]	<niklasl>	manu: any other questions re. W3C FPWD publication
[10:14]	<niklasl>	No questions.
[10:15]	<niklasl>	manu: markus, you had a question re #120?
[10:15]	<manu1>	Topic: ISSUE-120 recap - Expansion and @type
[10:15]	<niklasl>	mlnt: why do we support objects as value of @type at all?
[10:16]	<niklasl>	mlnt: the reasoning says that the value space is different, but the decision to throw away data seems contradictory
[10:17]	<niklasl>	manu: the only thing @type is looking for is a value to interpret as an @id
[10:17]	<niklasl>	manu: in order to make the algorithm more accepting, we allow an object but only keep the value of @id
[10:18]	<niklasl>	mlnt: I'm find with both ways, but not a combination
[10:18]	<niklasl>	manu: keeping the data adds lots of complexity, throwing an error is unnecessary since it's easy to get the value of @id from the object..
[10:19]	<niklasl>	manu: we need a better reason for throwing an error than that otherwise we discard the other data in the @type object
[10:19]	<voip-ld>	Dave Lehn (SIP/6003-0000004a) has joined the conference.
[10:19]	<niklasl>	manu: it makes the algorithm more complex than necessary if we throw an error in this corner case
[10:19]	<niklasl>	manu: we have plenty of other corner cases where we throw an error
[10:20]	<niklasl>	mlnt: we have callbacks, but we don't define what they do
[10:20]	<niklasl>	manu: do you rather see that the callback controls recovery instead of automatic recovery?
[10:20]	<niklasl>	dave: that would be fine with me (explicit callback recovery)
[10:21]	<niklasl>	dave: Markus makes a good point that other things have to be considered as well. if an object is there, callback controls recovery
[10:22]	<niklasl>	gregg: in the absence of a callback, I'd like the current recovery
[10:22]	<niklasl>	gregg: the narrow use case, having RDF data transferred over, with a type in expanded form, and when doing compaction I want to use @type, this would be beneficial default behaviour
[10:23]	<niklasl>	dave: so the use case is fromRDF not using @type, but wants @type in compacted form?
[10:24]	<niklasl>	manu: the other (stronger) reason is that we don't want to err out where it's easy to recover (it's the html5 behavior)
[10:24]	<niklasl>	dave: we have a similar problem with @id
[10:24]	<niklasl>	gregg: it's different
[10:25]	<niklasl>	Gregg and Dave discuss thoughts on numeric id:s and IRI templating....
[10:26]	<niklasl>	manu: there could be something like that in the future; in the mean time (going to REC) we need to work this out
[10:26]	<niklasl>	mlnt: currently there is no JSON-LD out there, so it's better to not support it until it appears
[10:27]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:27]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:27]	<niklasl>	dave: to we have real data like this?
[10:27]	<niklasl>	gregg: I think it was an observation from working with external sources
[10:28]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:28]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:29]	<manu1>	niklasl: It's hard to reason too much about this w/o looking at concrete cases - part of this discussion cropped up a few months ago when we discussed whether it was possible to represent the RDF type like a general relation, just like any other property.
[10:29]	<mlnt>	as far as I remember this came up before we allowed rdf:type not to be automatically to @type in fromRDF()
[10:29]	<manu1>	niklasl: I've seen some need for this - for example - Elastic Search - you want an IRI for the type or perhaps a keyword and /also/ some kind of label in different languages because people want to search for it.
[10:30]	<manu1>	niklasl: If you declare rdf:type in your context... it may not be coerced like @type. I think this works if you create an expanded form fromRDF() and define a term forrdf:type in your context when you compact.
[10:30]	<gkellogg>	rdf:type a rdf:Property .
[10:31]	<manu1>	niklasl: From my point of view - I'm fine w/ throwing an error - that we don't allow this form. There should be means for recovering.
[10:31]	-->|	JoshM (43a0d85e@gateway/web/freenode/ip.67.160.216.94) has joined #json-ld
[10:31]	<manu1>	niklasl: I do think that what we have right now is enough, explicit recovery is enough in this case.
[10:31]	<voip-ld>	<unknown> (IAX2/diamondcard-9355) has joined the conference.
[10:32]	<manu1>	voip: 8039 is tidoust
[10:32]	<voip-ld>	tidoust is now associated with IAX2/diamondcard-8039.
[10:32]	<mlnt>	{ "@id": "rdf:type", "@type": "rdf:Property" }
[10:33]	<niklasl>	.. or {"@id": "rdf:type", "rdf:type":{"@id: "rdf:Property"}}
[10:37]	<manu1>	voip: 9355 is JoshM
[10:37]	<voip-ld>	JoshM is now associated with IAX2/diamondcard-9355.
[10:37]	<niklasl>	gregg: perhaps if we use the expanded form in all the cases where @id isn't applicable, to not lose information
[10:37]	<manu1>	Topic: .objectify() vs. .frame()
[10:38]	<niklasl>	manu: gregg, can you write this down in the issue 120?
[10:38]	<niklasl>	gregg: sure
[10:38]	<niklasl>	gregg: Regarding .objectify() - I find framing very confusing to use right now
[10:39]	<niklasl>	gregg: it's hard to predict
[10:40]	<niklasl>	gregg: if I can use objectify instead, I have a surface type api, where everything is linked and I can access what I want in a very simple manner
[10:40]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:40]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:40]	<JoshM>	(Re: potential search mechanisms, have folks seen: http://jsonselect.org/#tryit ?)
[10:40]	<niklasl>	manu: I agree that it is complex and difficult to understand how to use the complex stuff
[10:40]	<niklasl>	manu: we can't remove framing until we have a good replacement. objectify would probably be that
[10:41]	<JoshM>	I (clearly) also found framing difficult to use, which is why I coded up objectify() in the js library...
[10:41]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:41]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:41]	<dlongley-db>	q+
[10:41]	<voip-ld>	Added dlongley-db to the speaker queue: dlongley-db
[10:41]	<manu1>	niklasl: I generally agree that framing is difficult - I do have some use cases for framing.
[10:42]	<manu1>	niklasl: .objectify() feels like the way to distinguish JSON-LD usage from regular JSON usage... JavaScript has all of the requirements in place to make .objectify() work well...
[10:43]	<manu1>	niklasl: If you are using JSON-LD in a programmatic environment, it makes more sense to have an API that creates a graph structure of the objects within... because they are linked. It feels like a bit of a waste to not do that. This is the way I've used RDF previously in object mappers... we should be using references. The context definition is a good way to navigate Linked Data in general.
[10:43]	<manu1>	niklasl: One thing - I'm not sure about the name .objectify() - it might not capture the essence... I would use .toGraph() or .graphify() - just a detail, but if we're going forward with this, I wanted to raise this.
[10:44]	<mlnt>	decode()??
[10:44]	<JoshM>	Yes, I just made up the name `objectify` because it sounded cute and I needed to call it something.
[10:44]	<manu1>	gkellogg: There is an alternate meaning of Linked Data here - you're linking your data internally to create a real graph.
[10:45]	<manu1>	niklasl: There is something in rdflab - my play area for code on github - I've added something that we may want to discuss - reverse relations... which makes navigating an RDF vocabulary very easy. The thing that I noticed was that this structure I got was interesting in that in-memory graphs in RDF are more triple centric. This is just linked objects in a graph, and that felt much more natural. The triple view of things could be created as an iterator.
[10:45]	<mlnt>	q+
[10:45]	<voip-ld>	Added mlnt to the speaker queue: dlongley-db, mlnt
[10:46]	<manu1>	niklasl: This 'shape' felt much more natural... maybe this would fit in well with projections in the RDFa API.
[10:47]	<manu1>	niklasl: To back up quickly - the case where .frame() is useful - which is the case where I mostly use JSON-LD - which is to index stuff in elastic search. In that case, I didn't use the framing algorithm (I used an expand as much as I can algorithm... always rooted in current subject resource, which I track), I have very advanced search needs.
[10:47]	<manu1>	niklasl: I need to search for things linking to and from that document.
[10:47]	<manu1>	ack dlongley-db
[10:47]	<voip-ld>	dlongley-db has the floor. The next speaker is mlnt.
[10:48]	<niklasl>	dave: I agree with a lot of this - including naming - perhaps .connect()?
[10:48]	<JoshM>	q+
[10:48]	<voip-ld>	Added JoshM to the speaker queue: dlongley-db, JoshM
[10:48]	<niklasl>	dave: also a query mechanism is good
[10:48]	<niklasl>	dave: but we have to make sure that code don't end up cycling indefinitely (but that can probably be prevented anyway)
[10:49]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:49]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: dlongley-db, JoshM, niklasl
[10:50]	<niklasl>	dave: it's important not to call e.g. expand on an "objectified" structure
[10:51]	<niklasl>	dave: some of the power in framing is available with e.g. @container, but some cases might still need to be supported to adapt data to current patterns
[10:51]	<niklasl>	markus: is the question either or, or can they complement each other?
[10:52]	<niklasl>	dave: it should be noted that non-GC languages and objectify might not work as well
[10:52]	<JoshM>	http://jsonselect.org/#tryit
[10:53]	<niklasl>	josh: JSON-select could potentially be used for querying
[10:54]	<manu1>	niklasl: I used the prototype-based features to be clones of the actual objects - this makes the resulting graph object serializable by calling .toJSON() on it.
[10:54]	<manu1>	JoshM: Well, except for cycles.
[10:54]	<manu1>	niklasl: The clones have replaced the .toJSON() message with null - it skips cycles - expands into a tree again.
[10:54]	<manu1>	ack dlongley-db
[10:54]	<voip-ld>	dlongley-db has the floor. The next speaker is JoshM.
[10:54]	<manu1>	ack joshm
[10:54]	<voip-ld>	dlongley-db has the floor. The next speaker is niklasl.
[10:55]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:55]	<voip-ld>	dlongley-db has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:55]	<voip-ld>	There are no speakers in the queue.
[10:55]	<niklasl>	dave: it might be ambiguous in general though
[10:55]	<niklasl>	gregg: flatten is the key to get it to work
[10:55]	<manu1>	q+ to propose a way to approach this sort of development.
[10:55]	<voip-ld>	Added manu1 to the speaker queue: manu1
[10:55]	* niklasl	the code I mentioned is at https://github.com/niklasl/rdfa-lab/blob/gh-pages/js/ld.js
[10:57]	<niklasl>	markus: how do you enter the graph?
[10:57]	-->|	scor (~scor@132.183.242.105) has joined #json-ld
[10:57]	|<--	scor has left freenode (Changing host)
[10:57]	-->|	scor (~scor@drupal.org/user/52142/view) has joined #json-ld
[10:57]	<manu1>	ack manu1
[10:57]	<voip-ld>	manu1 has the floor (to propose a way to approach this sort of development.). The speaker queue is empty.
[10:57]	* niklasl	also, see the usage example: https://github.com/niklasl/rdfa-lab/blob/gh-pages/test/test_ld.js
[10:58]	* niklasl	mlnt: see the above example for entering the graph (i.e. get one subject by id, or use rev and get all by type..)
[10:59]	<niklasl>	manu: we need to explore whether we can completely replace framing with objectify in usages, and if/how they complement each other
[10:59]	<niklasl>	gregg: are we continuing in the github tracker?
[10:59]	<niklasl>	manu: yes, we can continue to use it
[11:00]	<voip-ld>	JoshM (IAX2/diamondcard-9355) has left the conference.
[11:00]	<niklasl>	gregg: how to get github to notify the mailing list (not only the people)?
[11:00]	<niklasl>	manu: the w3c tracker doesn't either; we can create a script
[11:00]	* niklasl	maybe there's a web-hook to use?
[11:01]	<niklasl>	manu: it's important, and I think we can solve it
[11:01]	<niklasl>	manu: and I suspect we agree that gh:s tracker is the better one?
[11:02]	<niklasl>	gregg: although the w3c tracker works well with irc (but there's probably a means with gh as well)
[11:02]	<tidoust>	bye
[11:02]	<taaz>	bye
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	Gregg Kellogg (SIP/10.0.1.18-00000044) has left the conference.
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-00000043) has left the conference.
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-00000046) has left the conference.
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/192.168.3.19-00000049) has left the conference.
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	tidoust (IAX2/diamondcard-8039) has left the conference.
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	Dave Lehn (SIP/6003-0000004a) has left the conference.
[11:02]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000047) has left the conference.
