16:01:16 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #json-ld
16:01:20 <RRSAgent> logging to https://www.w3.org/2024/09/11-json-ld-irc
16:01:20 <Zakim> RRSAgent, make logs Public
16:01:21 <Zakim> please title this meeting ("meeting: ..."), gkellogg
16:01:21 <TallTed> present+
16:01:21 <pchampin> present+
16:01:25 <gkellogg> meeting: JSON-LD CG
16:01:29 <niklasl> niklasl has joined #json-ld
16:01:30 <gkellogg> agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/e439ee3a-38a9-4506-b9c8-8ba0a2b79cbc/
16:01:33 <agendabot> gkellogg, sorry, I did not recognize any agenda in https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/e439ee3a-38a9-4506-b9c8-8ba0a2b79cbc/
16:01:36 <gkellogg> chair: gkellogg
16:01:39 <gkellogg> present+
16:01:40 <niklasl> present+
16:01:49 <bigbluehat> present+
16:01:52 <anatoly-scherbakov> present+
16:02:26 <gkellogg> chair+ bigbluehat
16:02:26 <gkellogg> topic: TPAC preparation
16:03:03 <gkellogg> scribe+
16:03:18 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: We're mostly talking about the breakout panel at TPAC.
16:03:30 <anatoly-scherbakov> q+
16:03:36 <gkellogg> ... We need some YAML-LD slides
16:03:38 <gkellogg> ack anatoly-scherbakov
16:03:56 <gkellogg> anatoly-scherbakov: I'm working on the presentation, it's a draft now.
16:04:12 <anatoly-scherbakov> We have a template and I am using that
16:04:36 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: I've started using the W3C template.
16:05:41 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: Start presentation with JSON-LD history.
16:06:10 <gkellogg> ... Next work is on for the next version.
16:07:17 <gkellogg> ... I wasn't going to talk too much about what goes into JSON-LD 1.2.
16:07:53 <gkellogg> ... The plan is mostly built off the CBOR-LD 1.0 spec, and we'll bring in work from related specs.
16:08:12 <gkellogg> ... I'll get Wes to provide some more detail.
16:09:03 <gkellogg> gkellogg: CBOR also needs something from YAML
16:09:42 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: Examples walk through a comparison of JSON-LD and YAML-LD leading to a barcode.
16:10:23 <gkellogg> ... Then discuss CBOR-LD Road Ahead
16:10:57 <gkellogg> .. I plan to bring in anatoly-scherbakov's work into this slide deck.
16:11:20 <gkellogg> s/.. I plan/... I plan/
16:11:42 <gkellogg> ... Starting discussion on hash fragments.
16:12:18 <gkellogg> ... Hash ID interpretation potentially allows hashes to have different meanings in JSON-LD.
16:13:51 <gkellogg> ... There continue to be stones thrown at JSON-LD on issues related to hash identifiers.
16:14:29 <gkellogg> ... There is value to be had if you can reference a context via its hash.
16:14:59 <pchampin> q+
16:14:59 <gkellogg> ... An interpreter could use or ignore the hash.
16:15:01 <gkellogg> q+
16:15:22 <gkellogg> ack pchampin
16:15:47 <gkellogg> pchampin: Is the idea to specify that application/ld+json has a special meaning for fragment identifiers?
16:15:53 <gkellogg> ... (yes)
16:16:50 <gkellogg> ... This is important to explain to people that a context IRI is an identifier.
16:17:49 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: The fragment identifiers only have meaning to client code.
16:18:40 <gkellogg> pchampin: My point was that if you insist on IRIs in general, and context IRIs in particular as being identifiers, then you have two different identifiers (with and without hash).
16:19:18 <gkellogg> ... If you want to be consistent, VC would need to use context identifiers containing this hash.
16:20:27 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: Are documents served with or without hash the same?
16:21:10 <gkellogg> ... The goal is to be able to say the intention of what is requested.
16:21:23 <gkellogg> q?
16:21:54 <gkellogg> ... Data integrity doesn't depend on this, as it's based on triples.
16:22:50 <gkellogg> ... There's a big need for this.
16:22:58 <bigbluehat> scribe+
16:23:12 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: it's too premature for this to be a deliverable for the new WG
16:23:27 <bigbluehat> ... we could say we're exploring this for possible future standardization and handle it in a recharter
16:23:32 <bigbluehat> ... it's too hand wavy right now
16:23:37 <bigbluehat> ... and full of a lot of issues
16:23:39 <bigbluehat> q+
16:23:42 <bigbluehat> ack gkellogg
16:23:55 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: this does remind me of hash link which sadly didn't go anywhere
16:24:03 <bigbluehat> ... so sadly that's not available
16:24:19 <bigbluehat> ... but I remain wary of adding this as a normative deliverable
16:24:54 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: The plan was to issue this as a note. It could eventually make its way into the spec.
16:26:23 <TallTed> q+
16:26:25 <gkellogg> ... I think it's optional, and is experimental. I could optionally be used to validate that a JSON document matches the hash.
16:26:27 <gkellogg> q+
16:26:31 <gkellogg> ack bigbluehat
16:27:12 <gkellogg> ... I wanted to signal to the wider community that we recognize the issue and are exploring solutions.
16:27:26 <gkellogg> ack TallTed
16:27:41 <gkellogg> TallTed: I think it's a good thing to add. I think the "##" is not the say to do it.
16:28:11 <bigbluehat> q+
16:28:28 <gkellogg> ... A fragment identifier is a very specific thing, and you don't use '='. It could be ...
16:28:55 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: RFC3986 has an ABNF for IRIs which we've adopted in RDF Concepts
16:28:55 <pchampin> I believe that '=' is allowed in hash fragment, even though it does not have any special meaning
16:29:16 <bigbluehat> TallTed: so some of characters may need to be encoded, but that doesn't change their meaning in the value
16:29:18 <gkellogg> TallTed: Some characters may need to be URL endcoded with %
16:29:24 <bigbluehat> ack gkellogg
16:29:34 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: why is this a JSON-LD thing?
16:29:43 <bigbluehat> ... it seems this would be generally useful
16:29:56 <bigbluehat> ... to verify the hash on the URL against the retrieved content
16:30:03 <bigbluehat> ... maybe it's more IETF?
16:30:24 <bigbluehat> ... some sort of fragment identifier subset that could allow specifications that invoke that to have these symantics
16:30:32 <bigbluehat> ack bigbluehat
16:31:07 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: We tried to do this more generally (i.e. hashlink), but IETF ties this to the media type.
16:31:21 <TallTed> q+
16:31:35 <gkellogg> ... To be general, either client code decides to interpret this or not.
16:31:54 <gkellogg> ... Hashlink didn't work, because it was proposing something be implementable everywhere.
16:32:12 <gkellogg> ... It also proposed that it shouldn't be a hash thing, but something server sent.
16:32:46 <gkellogg> ... URLs get us into the realm of APIs.
16:33:06 <anatoly-scherbakov> I've taken another headset, should work, but my mic is supposed to be off now :./
16:33:19 <gkellogg> ... That would need to include some protocol element.
16:33:42 <gkellogg> ... A hash was chosen, because it doesn't eliminate the ability for a server to send it, but it's up the client to interpret.
16:34:41 <gkellogg> ... I'd love to work on it or propose it as a work item.
16:34:44 <gkellogg> ack TallTed
16:35:15 <gkellogg> TallTed: The problem with using a fragment identifier is that can't be returned by a server.
16:35:40 <gkellogg> ... A query parameter is probably better. Servers usually just ignore parameters they don't understand.
16:35:54 <gkellogg> ... It might be better as an HTTP parameter.
16:36:16 <gkellogg> ... This is the only way for a client to make a request of the server that it can choose to honor or not.
16:36:31 <gkellogg> q?
16:36:43 <gkellogg> anatoly-scherbakov: (shares screen)
16:37:16 <gkellogg> ... I've prepared a presentation on YAML-LD.
16:38:05 <gkellogg> ... JSON-LD allows applications to understand metadata if they share a common understanding of the vocabularies used.
16:38:40 <gkellogg> ... JSON is a straight-forward format be tedious to write. YAML addresses this.
16:39:13 <gkellogg> ... The YAML-LD version of the example removes a lot of syntax.
16:39:42 <gkellogg> ... We're trying to make Linked Data more writable/readable for people not expert in Linked Data.
16:40:43 <gkellogg> YAML-LD allows you to reuse existing YAML files, similar to how JSON-LD allows the use of regular JSON files.
16:41:11 <gkellogg> ... We currently have two implementations (gkellogg's and anatoly-scherbakov's).
16:41:57 <gkellogg> ... We use a convenience context to avoid having to quote '@id', for example.
16:42:20 <gkellogg> q+
16:42:25 <bigbluehat> q+
16:42:54 <gkellogg> anatoly-scherbakov: Where do the slides go?
16:42:58 <bigbluehat> ack bigbluehat
16:43:17 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: I have a repo which isn't public yet, but we can use that for slides.
16:44:39 <gkellogg> anatoly-scherbakov: JSON-LD doesn't require indentation, but without it, it is difficult to read. Of course, it's required for YAML.
16:45:20 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: YAML-LD does everything JSON-LD does. It's just easier for humans to write and manage
16:45:27 <bigbluehat> ack gkellogg
16:45:38 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: I think you have a single example in there that may be too simple
16:45:57 <bigbluehat> ... maybe we can share examples with the CBOR-LD examples?
16:46:06 <bigbluehat> anatoly-scherbakov: I suppose those are in bigbluehat's deck?
16:46:08 <bigbluehat> bigbluehat: yep
16:46:11 <pchampin> q+
16:46:49 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: The presentation in the default template uses an odd color scheme, so I include highlight.js.
16:47:10 <gkellogg> q?
16:47:13 <gkellogg> ack pchampin
16:47:37 <gkellogg> pchampin: Comments are a great feature of YAML that JSON doesn't support.
16:48:04 <anatoly-scherbakov> q+
16:48:13 <gkellogg> ack anatoly-scherbakov
16:48:56 <gkellogg> anatoly-scherbakov: I wouldn't encourage people to use comments in YAML-LD, at least in the data. May be useful in contexts, but otherwise something like rdfs:comment could be used.
16:49:14 <gkellogg> pchampin: I disagree, as you typilcally don't want comments in the data.
16:50:18 <bigbluehat> gkellogg: RDF-star will be discussed earlier in the week
16:50:34 <bigbluehat> ... so it may not get discussed during the group call on Thursday as much
16:50:45 <niklasl> I mostly do agree, that comments *in* data is also data (rdfs:comment, or ... RDF-star annotations(!)). But comments for editing *may* be* another thing (on many levels). It's... complicated. ;)
16:51:35 <TallTed> I do wish those TPAC calendar entries could all start with `TPAC:`
16:51:46 <TallTed> q+
16:52:07 <gkellogg> ack TallTed
16:52:38 <gkellogg> TallTed: If they could put "TPAC:" in front of these meetings, it would be less confusing.
16:50:34 <bigbluehat> topic: TPAC Schedule
16:50:34 <bigbluehat> Spatial Data joint meeting - 5-7 pm ET (2-4 pm PT)
16:50:34 <bigbluehat> RDF-star - 2-3:30 pm ET (11 am -12:30 pm PT)
16:50:34 <bigbluehat> JSON-LD main call - 5-7 pm ET (2-4 pm PT)
16:50:34 <bigbluehat> Web of Things - 7:30 - 9 pm ET (4:30-6 pm PT)
16:53:55 <gkellogg> zakim, end meeting
16:53:55 <Zakim> As of this point the attendees have been TallTed, pchampin, gkellogg, niklasl, bigbluehat, anatoly-scherbakov
16:53:57 <Zakim> RRSAgent, please draft minutes
