20:04:10 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #json-ld
20:04:10 <RRSAgent> logging to https://www.w3.org/2022/09/12-json-ld-irc
20:04:10 <gkellogg> agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/6b900451-f0a7-46b0-8668-3cc20e0b026c
20:04:12 <Zakim> RRSAgent, make logs Public
20:04:13 <Zakim> please title this meeting ("meeting: ..."), pchampin
20:04:13 <Orie> present+
20:04:17 <kdeangs1> kdeangs1 has joined #json-ld
20:04:20 <cel> scribe+
20:04:21 <domel> present+
20:04:27 <cel> topic: Introductions
20:04:28 <jvanulde> present+
20:04:39 <ivan> present+ ivan, TallTed, Phila, mkhraisha
20:04:57 <betehess> betehess has joined #json-ld
20:05:06 <betehess> present+
20:05:06 <cel> present+
20:05:08 <cel> mprorock: Mike Prorock, one of the co-chairs of the Credentials Community Group, working on Verifiable Credential work items, doing JSON-LD / linked data items
20:05:23 <cel> phila: Phil Archer, GS1, RCH WG, canonicalizing your stuff
20:05:33 <bigbluehat> present+
20:05:40 <cel> pchampin: from W3C, co-editor with Greg on JSON-LD 1.1
20:06:07 <cel> betehess: Alex from Netflix, doing GraphQL federation
20:06:08 <pchampin> scribe+
20:06:22 <pchampin> charles Lehner: independant observer, DID and VC person
20:06:25 <pchampin> scribe-
20:06:31 <cel> cel: Charles Lehner, independent, VCs/DIDs related
20:06:48 <cel> gkellogg: Greg Kellogg, co-editor of specs
20:07:34 <cel> ivan: staff contact previously for this WG and for DID WG
20:08:28 <cel> jvanulde: from Canada, cross-border work, as observer
20:08:47 <cel> Javad: observer
20:09:05 <cel> kdeangs1: working with Phil
20:09:18 <cel> Mahmoud: Maven Net, supply chains
20:10:01 <cel> anatoly-scherbakov: Republic of Romania. Interested in YAML-LD for bringing linked data to the mainstream, for people to use semantic data in their daily lives
20:10:28 <mprorock> mprorock has joined #json-ld
20:10:32 <cel> benjamin: co-chair of JSON-LD WG that was and is about to be again - and of community group, working for John Wiley and Sons as a principal architect
20:10:45 <mprorock> present+
20:10:51 <cel> dan: Daniel, working at Google, TypeScript, privacy
20:11:19 <cel> dominik: Dominik Tomaszuk, extremely interested in YAML-LD
20:12:04 <cel> JeffWaters: AC Rep for DISA, just joined this last week
20:12:24 <cel> ... I was a rep in the old days when we were members earlier on. A great fan of JSON-LD and all the work you all are doing; interested in catching up
20:12:37 <cel> ... Interested in this being used more in our organization/agency; looking forward to advocating
20:13:20 <cel> dlehn1: David Lehn from Digital Bazaar, working on JSON-LD since it started. doing implementations in JavaScript and Python
20:13:42 <cel> juuso-aut: Juoso Autisado. post-doctoral researcher on digital prints
20:13:54 <cel> ... interested in describing digital prints with JSON-LD and hopefully YAML-LD in the future
20:14:28 <cel> Orie: Orie Steele, CTO and co-founder of Transmute; working on verifiable credentials for supply chains; IETF COSE and JOSE cryptographic representations
20:14:41 <cel> ... YAML-LD and pieces; interested in overlap of formats here at W3C
20:15:12 <cel> TallTed: Ted Thibodeau, Open Link Software, working here for ~20 years; distributed identity, RDF; you'll see me in a group
20:15:45 <cel> Timothe: Timothée Haudebourg..., working on Rust JSON-LD library, at Spruce
20:16:11 <cel> kristina: Kristina from Microsoft, co-chair Verifiable Credentials WG
20:16:24 <cel> masaki: WebRTC, joining here for my curiosity
20:16:47 <cel> GeunHyung_Kim: Geunhyung Kim, JSON-LD linked data ecosystem
20:17:07 <cel> kang: Seukyoon Kang, from South Korea, first time at W3C, interested in many things
20:17:19 <cel> gkellogg: Welcome everyone, thank you for meeting with us today.
20:17:32 <kristina> kristina has joined #json-ld
20:17:35 <kristina> present+
20:17:58 <dlehn1> present+
20:18:03 <GeunHyung_Kim> GeunHyung_Kim has joined #json-ld
20:18:15 <GeunHyung_Kim> present+
20:18:17 <cel> gkellogg: We have been meeting every other week on Wednesdays; WG page has more info; everyone is welcome to join
20:18:17 <pchampin> https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/json-ld/calendar
20:18:31 <cel> ... Mostly discussing YAML-LD, but the community is for everything discussing JSON-LD
20:19:19 <cel> gkellogg: Arguably, JSON-LD is one of the most successful linked data formats ever, which probably surprises people working on RDF/semantic-web standards all this time...
20:19:25 <lukasz> lukasz has joined #json-ld
20:19:32 <cel> ... Over 43% of all websites have some JSON-LD
20:19:43 <cel> ... Web Data Commons reports...
20:20:08 <cel> ... JSON-LD is used as a native way to represent RDF, but also simply because it's JSON.
20:20:21 <cel> ... For describing SHEX expressions, tabular data, and a number of other places.
20:20:51 <cel> ... By and large most people interacting with JSON-LD don't realize they are interacting with a linked data format. That's by design, to make it easy for people to use it
20:20:54 <TallTed> present+
20:21:09 <cel> bigbluehat: I think a lot of that growth is attributable to schema.org, and its "rich snippets" for search engines
20:21:22 <cel> ... But also a huge growth of publishers (e.g. John Wiley and Sons) using it...
20:21:28 <cel> ... and for web annotations.
20:21:52 <cel> ... Our e-reader includes Apache Annotator
20:21:58 <cel> ... Embedded use cases...
20:22:12 <cel> ... Over the last 5-6 years it's grown exponentially,
20:22:17 <cel> ... and into places we didn't expect initially
20:22:54 <cel> gkellogg: I think much of the success of JSON-LD is largely tied to the success of schema.org - as one of the 3 recommended serializations for expressing info about schema.org
20:22:54 <pchampin> q?
20:23:16 <cel> topic: YAML-LD
20:23:32 <cel> gkellogg: YAMl-LD is basically a way of expressing linked data in YAML.
20:23:40 <cel> ... It does that by basically mirroring what JSON-LD provides.
20:24:02 <cel> ... JSON and YAML are largely interchangeable. YAML is commonly used in configuration files - more human readable.
20:24:21 <cel> ... For example, a YAML document may have a context declaring a common vocabulary; that's used to determine all the lines that come after that.
20:24:36 <cel> ... In this case I've used a Turtle interpretation. Usually we use literals...
20:24:40 <cel> ... [slide 15]
20:24:45 <GeunHyung_Kim_> GeunHyung_Kim_ has joined #json-ld
20:25:45 <cel> ... Quoted string is because many YAML interpreters interpret certain values in certain ways. For date formats though, that may be obsoleted.
20:25:57 <cel> ... Extended YAML-LD. [slide 16]
20:26:07 <cel> ... Basic YAML is mostly 1:1 with JSON.
20:26:24 <cel> ... YAML has more funtionality. Effectively, data types for scalar values.
20:26:48 <cel> ... In this example we provide a data type for our date format, that allows expressing an RDF literal.
20:26:56 <cel> ... It's under debate...
20:27:16 <cel> ... YAML allows the ability to tag nodes with a URI; that's used for internal formats to describe things as integers, booleans, maps, arrays.
20:27:32 <cel> ... It's extensible by declaring a tag at the top, like a prefix in Turtle, or a term in a context in JSON-LD.
20:27:48 <cel> ... This exists outside JSON-LD. An open issue is how to best take advantage of these capabilities.
20:27:57 <wayne> wayne has joined #json-ld
20:28:03 <cel> ... YAML also allows you to share nodes by putting effectively a node label, and then reference it later on.
20:28:12 <cel> ... Microdata has a similar capability.
20:28:28 <cel> ... This was addressed in JSON-LD. We have some ways of including references in JSON-LD but typically only to nodes rather than scalars.
20:28:36 <cel> ... We can actually create references to scalars in YAML.
20:28:50 <cel> ... As noted in the shortcomings, I've used a string representation for the XSD URI.
20:29:08 <cel> ... rather than a hash. Most tools don't allow a hash, so need some escaping. %23 is equivalent to #.
20:29:21 <pchampin> q?
20:29:47 <cel> ... There is also a potential to use other data types for expressing things like language. In JSON-LD v1.1 we introduced a proposal for one way of representing language - in particular, text direction - in JSON-LD - and therefore in RDF.
20:29:58 <cel> ... That is to use a URI which encodes in it a language and a text direction.
20:30:14 <cel> ... One shortcoming of RDF is it doesn't have the ability to encode text direction, like other formats such as XML do.
20:30:39 <cel> ... Ivan is responsible for coming up with the i18n namespaces with a semantic such that you can append information to the URI, such that you can extract both language and text direction.
20:30:45 <cel> ... That means you can only encode language.
20:31:12 <plh> plh has joined #json-ld
20:31:24 <mprorock> q+
20:31:28 <cel> ... e.g. en-US could be encoded using this mechanism
20:32:10 <cel> ... JSON-LD 1.1 introduced the concept of an internal representation. Rather than operating entirely on JSON concepts, it operates on a more abstract representation of the structures that are encoded in JSON. Arrays, maps, numbers, strings, boolean values, and null.
20:32:30 <cel> ... Here we see (slide 18) a representation in YAML on the left that might appear using these various capabilities
20:33:06 <cel> ... At the top is a document with a tag for the specific version of YAML. It includes a mapping, encoding the scalar values for context, which represents a map, which has a scalar value @vocab, which has a value which is the namespace.
20:33:23 <cel> ... By using YAML you can use the internal structure
20:33:52 <cel> ... to turn into JSON-LD. Can also use anything that can represent these types, like CBOR.
20:34:10 <cel> ... to turn not into JSON but into the internal representation used by JSON-LD API mechanisms such as expand, compact...
20:34:22 <cel> ... Then can serialize back to YAML or JSON.
20:34:30 <cel> ... That provides our basic interoperability between these formats.
20:35:12 <cel> Javad: 2/3 small questions... Is the format fixed?
20:35:28 <cel> gkellogg: Undergoing active development. Nothing is fixed; seeking more feedback and better ideas
20:35:58 <cel> Javad: Does this make the processing more expensive, since have to process the whole value?
20:36:13 <manu> q+
20:36:14 <cel> gkellogg: Yes, this is why we separated the basic YAML-LD from the extended YAML-LD
20:36:42 <cel> ... You should be able to implement the basic YAML-LD JSON profile... But there are more capabilities that YAML provides that are of interest to people to be able to express more JSON-LD
20:36:54 <cel> ... The ability to use tags potentially reduces the dependency on a (JSON-LD) context.
20:37:25 <cel> ... Right now may use a term definition for date; that has a type when used as a property; this provides a different way of doing that, that's built into YAML.
20:37:36 <cel> ... Another important capability is to have references to nodes
20:38:09 <cel> Javad: From a sensor perspective, sensors could send JSON/RDF-annotated data. Every time there is a reading, they just send that part - a partial record
20:38:32 <cel> ... Is there a way at the record level to refer to an IRI to say which document something should be a part of?
20:38:53 <cel> gkellogg: This is related to NDJSON. Line-delimited JSON; each line is its own JSON document
20:39:48 <cel> ... YAML content has the concept of a stream composed of many documents. How do you relate a stream of documents to JSON which does not have a stream concept (no way of talking about multiple documents); that's a shortcoming we should consider; this might be a way to deal with sensor networks that might want to output complete information that is about a subset of a document, by line
20:40:07 <cel> ... The way to associate it would be like in JSON-LD; an object with an identifier, properties and values
20:40:18 <cel> ... The data model being an RDF dataset means that the effect of processing these documents is additive
20:40:20 <Timothe> Timothe has joined #json-ld
20:40:30 <cel> ... So you are building up a dataset after processing each of these
20:40:43 <cel> ... Similar to have embedded script tags in HTML are treated
20:41:02 <pchampin> q?
20:41:04 <cel> ... The way JSON-LD algorithms currently treat it is that all the documents are basically serialized into an array
20:41:13 <pchampin> ack mprorock
20:41:44 <cel> mprorock: About i18n, lang tags... is anyone looking at training models like Common Crawl with that? I'm doing natural language processing, this comes up a lot...
20:41:57 <cel> ... The language flag, when looking at multi-lingual models, seems like it could be helpful
20:42:13 <cel> ... Anyone doing that, other than for display hints?
20:42:17 <cel> ivan: No (short answer)
20:43:07 <cel> ... What really led to this issue - I don't think this would be easy to train - There are situations where you have a text, say in Hebrew, in which you mix latin characters. These bidirectional things are always the stumbling block. The fact that these could not be expressed in RDF came up time and time again.
20:43:16 <cel> ... Our arms were twisted in JSON-LD by assuming we solved it
20:43:32 <cel> ... I don't know if training models handle these edge cases
20:43:34 <pchampin> q?
20:43:43 <cel> mprorock: Knowing you could attach the tag is part of the factorization
20:44:06 <cel> gkellogg: Providing this... is likely not a primary source. You might be trying to extract truth from unknown sources... text direction...
20:44:24 <pchampin> q?
20:44:32 <cel> mprorock: And knowing the intent of the author. e.g. a description about something... what did you mean by that? Are there additional hints?
20:44:35 <pchampin> ack manu
20:44:50 <cel> manu: Question... You were talking about going from JSON to the internal JSON-LD model and back out to YAML...
20:45:05 <cel> ... Have you looked at the way CBOR-LD skips that intermediate step? Goes straight from CBOR-LD to JSON-LD without the intermediate step
20:45:25 <cel> ... Do you feel we have now a generalized mechanism to go through the internal representation - or you think going through another model is viable?
20:45:39 <phila_> ack manu
20:45:42 <cel> gkellogg: JSON is a serialization format. Algorithms can't really operate directly on the serialization; they can operate on the representation of the serialization
20:45:50 <cel> ... We operate on numbers, not the serialization of numbers, for instance
20:46:04 <cel> ... The internal representation was put in 1.1 as a way of being able to operate on "objects" to do programming.
20:46:19 <cel> ... You might be pointing at an issue that is under active discussion... Is that internal representation sufficient?
20:46:48 <cel> ... i.e. are arrays/maps/numbers/strings/booleans enough? certainly is for JSON-LD interop. For a basic profile to be able to express in YAML exactly what can be expressed in JSON.
20:47:02 <cel> ... But there are things that can't be expressed in JSON. like a native datetime format. similar in CBOR.
20:47:17 <mprorock> q+
20:47:18 <cel> ... So I have a proposal for an extended representation - to be able to convey other primitive data types - specifically, RDF literals
20:47:42 <cel> ... This date format, for instances... where we see xsd:date of "2022-09-12", you could see the RDF literal for that
20:47:53 <cel> ... If that is native, it would be conveyed through the JSON-LD algorithms as-is.
20:48:10 <cel> ... The algorithms where that is not true is to/from-RDF.
20:48:41 <cel> manu: Is the internal representation mandatory? CBOR-LD in practice doesn't; just reads bytes and translates CBOR
20:48:57 <cel> ... If we were to standardize CBOR-LD, would we need to define how it goes through the internal representation?
20:49:19 <cel> pchampin: Are you saying it goes through the CBOR-LD representation to CBOR without the internal representation?
20:49:38 <cel> manu: Yes, It's a straight translation... I wonder if we need language that is is okay, or if it's not
20:49:48 <cel> gkellogg: I think it's okay, like the basic YAML-LD representation
20:50:26 <cel> ... There might be some advantages of instead targetting an internal representation, if this group decides to go through some extended mechanism to make fuller use...
20:50:47 <cel> ... This date would expand into a value object, which includes a value and a type component.
20:51:06 <cel> ... Problem is that in a compacted format, you don't know without processing, whether the value has e.g. type "date"
20:51:21 <cel> ... When re-serializing back to JSON, you can't serialize to string without processing the context
20:51:52 <cel> ... By maintaining a more native representation... JSON-LD currently just passes through numbers... There might be some advantages if you want to deal with CBOR structures that are not simply expressed in the base JSON typing.
20:52:04 <pchampin> q?
20:52:09 <cel> ... I don't believe it's required to define mapping to/from the internal representation if you don't need to take advantage of those features
20:52:32 <cel> manu: So maybe a rule of thumb is that if you don't need to do JSON-LD processing with those algorithms, you don't need to go through the internal representation
20:52:58 <cel> gkellogg: The APIs... may say turn into the internal representation by parsing, then the last step is implied to serialize - implied e.g. by HTTP Accept headers
20:53:16 <cel> ... YAML-LD may have to detect application/ld+yaml to parse, then serialize back to JSON
20:53:30 <cel> ... Presumably CBOR-LD has similar requirements
20:53:35 <mprorock> q-
20:54:27 <cel> gkellogg: This goes on (slide 19) to how we might represent an extended YAML-LD profile.
20:54:50 <cel> ... The example on the left is what a JSON representation of YAML might be.
20:55:10 <cel> ... We have a couple scalar values there with type information. e.g. name is xsd:string, date is xsd:date
20:55:23 <cel> ... One way of dealing with these expanded values is simply to represent them as value objects.
20:55:54 <dezell> dezell has joined #json-ld
20:56:03 <cel> ... That is the natural way you might do it. But in order to take advantage of the JSON-LD context... that might require reserialization, if date is defined with xsd:date, we're not doing it that way if we recompact it we now have it with a string object rather than a value object.
20:56:16 <cel> ... Having done that I've sortof lost the ability to turn it into YAML using these node tags
20:56:38 <cel> ... Although the advantage is that is doesn't require change to the internal representation, it introduces some disadvantages for how we manipulate the data.
20:57:04 <cel> ... The alternative is that we carry these extended values, e.g. rather than using a value object we use a literal object, encoding things you expect from a literal (value, type, language)
20:57:22 <cel> ... Advantags is that it goes through JSON-LD algorithms unchanged, since it only deals with expanded values (ignoring string values of other types)
20:57:35 <cel> ... but it's no longer representable as JSON; requiring us to extend the internal representation to do that.
20:57:49 <cel> ... There are also thoughts of doing this on IRIs and blank nodes.
20:58:06 <cel> ... That's our introduction to what the group has done so far
20:58:13 <cel> ... We have a number of open issues
20:58:31 <cel> ... Want to move forward on this open pull request...
20:59:26 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/pull/78
20:59:49 <cel> ... PR adds a section on how to convert YAML into the internal representation
21:00:30 <cel> ... Targetting a broad audience, for people to understand what YAML-LD is.
21:00:38 <kangseukyoon> kangseukyoon has joined #json-ld
21:00:41 <cel> ... One issue is to split out into a "YAML-LD primer"
21:00:53 <cel> ... for people wanting to use it without getting into the algorithmic details
21:01:13 <cel> ... YAML-LD is fundamentally YAML. Most people will interact it with it as such, rather than as a linked-data format
21:01:34 <phila_> scribe: phila_
21:02:21 <phila_> gkellogg: IMO, we should use the extended internal representation
21:02:34 <phila_> gkellogg works through draft spec
21:03:00 <phila_> gkellogg: Turns YAML into the internal representation, which takes advantage of the YAML spec to create the internal graph
21:03:33 <phila_> ... the tools such as {} do provide entry points into this internmedia representation that provide more of the sturctured representation, no interpretation of data types
21:03:41 <phila_> ... this presumes that mechanism is available
21:03:59 <phila_> ... so process first involves creating interal representation graph then interpreate that
21:04:17 <kristina> kristina has joined #json-ld
21:04:27 <phila_> ... so YAML does have the capability of describing multiple docs (YAML stream)
21:04:44 <phila_> gkellogg: JSON doesn't have a way of doing that
21:04:52 <phila_> ... this is an area we need to explore further
21:05:02 <phila_> ... we have a need to describe multiple different docs
21:05:32 <phila_> gkellogg: [Continues through doc]
21:05:41 <phila_> gkellogg: in JSON a map is an object
21:06:17 <phila_> ... Recusive steps here, create an array composing of the constituent parts
21:06:28 <phila_> ... YAML has a mapkey that can be any other node type
21:06:52 <phila_> ... YAML-LD restricts that a string scalar. Anything else wouldn't be possible to deal with the JSON-LD algorithms, so that's a concession
21:07:16 <phila_> ... by doing this recursively, you get back to the internal mapping
21:07:34 <phila_> ... Interpreting scalars... this is where we get into some more changes from the base.
21:07:43 <phila_> ... We keep the notion of an extended YAML flag
21:07:54 <phila_> ... So processor has to be running in an extended YAML mode
21:08:12 <phila_> gkellogg: Basic YAML types are used for tag namespace
21:08:22 <phila_> ... might be an str for a sstring etc.
21:08:32 <phila_> ... there are other primitives that YAMl provides
21:08:40 <phila_> ... Then we have some special processing.
21:08:53 <phila_> ... If in the i18n namespace then it's processed differently
21:09:03 <phila_> ... so you can interpret the "_" character
21:09:48 <phila_> gkellogg: YAML distinguishes some number types - YAML distinguishes integer and float, JSON does not
21:10:14 <phila_> ... Could have a float that looks like an integer. Should be able to serialise back out as a float, even it's an integer
21:10:31 <phila_> gkellogg: Code for alias nodes. Introduces potential for looping
21:10:54 <phila_> ... An alias cannot refer to a labelled node before it's been encountered, but might have a recursive set of nodes.
21:11:03 <phila_> ... YAML has a way of dealing with that so we're OK
21:11:17 <phila_> gkellogg: Then there's the turning the extended internal rep back into YAML
21:11:41 <phila_> gkellogg: There's an open PR here that's a month old now. So an action is whether we want to merge this PR
21:11:56 <phila_> gkellogg: Or what do we want to do with an extended internal rep?
21:11:58 <pchampin> q?
21:12:02 <phila_> gkellogg: Invites opinions
21:12:29 <phila_> gkellogg: If we elect to go ahead and merge, we can still change it.
21:12:43 <tanishio> tanishio has joined #json-ld
21:13:12 <pchampin> PROPOSED: merge PR 78
21:13:30 <TallTed> +1 merge #78 and iterate with smaller changes as needed
21:13:31 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/pulls/78 -> Issue 78 Spec progress
21:13:39 <gkellogg> +1
21:14:01 <phila_> pchampin: Just to comment on bigbluehat's comment - yes, smaller PRs are better
21:14:05 <bigbluehat> +0 still concerned about the $ prefix...but we can address that as a follow-up
21:14:13 <TallTed> (this would be yaml-ld #78, not json-ld.org #78)
21:14:19 <pchampin> +1
21:14:21 <bigbluehat> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/pull/78
21:14:29 <juuso-aut> +1
21:14:30 <jeffwaters> jeffwaters has joined #json-ld
21:14:32 <phila_> gkellogg: In general yes. Each small would be smaller. I apologise for the grand PR. Apologies to TallTed as there are so many lines to review
21:14:56 <phila_> gkellogg: What is proposed here is already implemented in my distiller
21:14:57 <pchampin> http://rdf.greggkellogg.net/distiller
21:15:05 <phila_> ... my time is becoming more and more scarce
21:15:12 <domel> +1
21:15:38 <phila_> bigbluehat: We're for ever in your debt Gregg :-)
21:15:47 <phila_> gkellogg: It provides a more fleshed-out spec
21:15:55 <TallTed> soooooo much easier to do via github than via the old w3 wiki!
21:16:05 <phila_> pchampin: This is will make it easier now that we have a lot of things put down for future dicusssion
21:16:08 <pchampin> q?
21:16:16 <phila_> bigbluehat: It means we have more to complain about
21:16:16 <mkhraisha> +1
21:16:19 <dlehn1> +1
21:16:19 <mprorock> +1
21:16:22 <manu> +1 to merge PR78
21:16:24 <Timothe> +1
21:17:00 <phila_> [Some discussion about who can vote in a CG]
21:17:14 <anatoly-scherbakov> anatoly-scherbakov has joined #json-ld
21:17:24 <pchampin> RESOLVED: merge PR 78
21:17:36 <phila_> Topic: Issues
21:18:59 <phila_> [Discussion of what to discuss]
21:19:37 <pchampin> subtopic: https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/55
21:19:40 <phila_> gkellogg: Wants to talk about @-keywords with $-keywords
21:19:53 <phila_> gkellogg: Why not allow YAML to work with $? Was a suggestion
21:20:16 <phila_> ivan: Why not use the € sign?
21:20:20 <Timothe> €ontext
21:20:37 <phila_> gkellogg: People have pointed out you don't really need to do this except for context
21:21:03 <phila_> ... Benjamin went further and suggested no character was necessary
21:21:39 <phila_> gkellogg: @ container can only be used within a context, and within a context defn, you can't use aliases
21:22:05 <cel1> cel1 has joined #json-ld
21:22:16 <phila_> ... However, schema.org ... one way of disposing of this issue is by suggesting that by publishing this context, under json-ld, simply use this context
21:22:20 <manu> q+ to ask if this is really a huge issue? Most JSON-LD we're seeing aliases `@` keywords?
21:22:24 <bigbluehat> 1+
21:22:28 <bigbluehat> q+
21:22:34 <phila_> ... You can't create a context in YAML-LD without quotes but that's a specific context
21:22:36 <pchampin> ack manu
21:22:37 <Zakim> manu, you wanted to ask if this is really a huge issue? Most JSON-LD we're seeing aliases `@` keywords?
21:22:39 <phila_> ack manu
21:22:52 <phila_> manu: I wonder whether this is a big issue
21:22:52 <pchampin> q+
21:23:13 <phila_> ... We talked about this in the JSON-LD WG. We started with $ but the jquery people didn't like that.
21:23:22 <phila_> ... Mist things that we're seeing are aliasing id and type
21:23:35 <phila_> ... schema.org is an exception, but even they alias id and type
21:23:42 <phila_> ... So I'm not sure who is being impacted by this
21:23:43 <gkellogg> gkellogg has joined #json-ld
21:23:52 <phila_> ... It feels like it is not being driven by data
21:24:16 <phila_> manu: My suggestion is that we don't do anything about this until someone tells us we need to.
21:24:55 <phila_> manu: bigbluehat is always talking about a default context - that could be a processing instruction
21:25:04 <phila_> gkellogg: No one's talking about a default context
21:25:10 <pchampin> q?
21:25:16 <phila_> manu: We should act if we have real data
21:25:20 <pchampin> ack bigbluehat
21:25:21 <phila_> bigbluehat: I agree with Manu
21:25:36 <pchampin> q-
21:25:49 <phila_> bigbluehat: I didn't want to see another prefix happen. I didn't want YAML-LD grow weird features
21:25:52 <pchampin> q+
21:26:47 <phila_> bigbluehat: ... I feel like this is a nuke to kill a chicken. It's not a big problem
21:27:17 <phila_> bigbluehat: You can alias the main terns with or without a prefix to suit your use case - we can say that, to help avoid implementers coming up with their own ideas
21:27:26 <pchampin> q?
21:27:33 <phila_> [Apologies to bigbluehat I missed some of that]
21:27:52 <phila_> gkellogg: This was proposed by members coming from YAML and were more identifying with the types of problems that YAML people face
21:28:01 <phila_> ... IS there anyine here that can represente that position?
21:28:07 <phila_> [crickets]
21:28:15 <phila_> ack pchampin
21:28:34 <phila_> pchampin: I'm on the side of people coming from JSON-LD, but if I can play devil's advocate...
21:28:48 <phila_> ... I think the ambition is to open LD to other people who are not using it currently
21:29:10 <phila_> pchampin: The initial idea was to have this magaic transformation from $ to  keywords
21:29:17 <phila_> ... Some people prefer standard mechanisms
21:29:48 <phila_> pchampin: From this start, we kept looking for something that was a different prefix that wasn't a prefix
21:29:53 <phila_> ... I;m all for getting rid of the $
21:30:04 <phila_> ... That works well in the data but not in the context
21:30:11 <phila_> ... Newcomers will not write context
21:30:27 <phila_> ... The people who do write contexts can handle the complexity of quoting stuff
21:30:32 <pchampin> q?
21:30:58 <phila_> gkellogg: I'll also point out that using YAML-LD does not mean that you're entirely in the YAML ecosystem. a YAML doc can reference a JSON-LD doc
21:31:10 <phila_> ... with the YAML extensions, it would be possible to mix and match
21:31:11 <bradley> bradley has joined #json-ld
21:31:19 <phila_> ... take account of accept headers etc
21:31:27 <phila_> gkellogg: I'd like to propose that we close issues 11 and 55
21:31:38 <manu> +1 to close issues 11 and 55
21:31:39 <phila_> ... perhaps consider them for a best practices doc
21:31:47 <bigbluehat> q+
21:31:47 <TallTed> +1
21:31:50 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/55
21:31:52 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/11
21:32:04 <pchampin> ack bigbluehat
21:32:11 <phila_> bigbluehat: Are we removing these items? I think the $ got merged in 78?
21:32:27 <phila_> gkellogg: PR 78 doesn't include any $ signs
21:32:32 <phila_> pchampin: I think there are in the examples
21:32:45 <phila_> bigbluehat: As long as closure means removing
21:32:59 <juuso-aut> +1
21:33:03 <phila_> gkellogg: It means we're going to move on
21:33:05 <bigbluehat> +1 to close "wontfix" (at least not now ;))
21:33:08 <bigbluehat> https://github.com/json-ld/convenience-context
21:33:16 <Timothe> +1
21:33:17 <pchampin> PROPOSED: close issues 11 and 55 as "won't fix"
21:33:22 <bigbluehat> +1
21:33:23 <gkellogg> +1
21:33:24 <pchampin> +1
21:33:24 <phila_> [discussion of we're resolving]
21:33:29 <dlehn1> +1
21:33:29 <Timothe> +1
21:33:31 <juuso-aut> +1
21:33:31 <mkhraisha> +1
21:33:32 <TallTed> +1
21:33:35 <anatoly-scherbakov> +1
21:33:39 <ivan> +1
21:33:46 <bradley> bradley has left #json-ld
21:33:51 <cel> +1
21:33:57 <pchampin> RESOLVED: close issues 11 and 55 as "won't fix"
21:34:17 <phila_> gkellogg: As for the convenience context we can revisit that when we come to the best practice
21:34:26 <phila_> Topic: Conformance tests
21:34:42 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/20
21:34:59 <phila_> gkellogg: We don't have any! One suggestion was to re-create the JSON-LD tests for YAMl-LD. I think that would be be overkill
21:35:06 <phila_> gkellogg: We do need conformance tests
21:35:20 <phila_> ... Having set up a basic direction, I think we can use basic conformance tests
21:35:27 <phila_> ... And encourage more implementations
21:35:40 <phila_> ... I'd love to see json-ld.js used as a basis for YAML-LD
21:35:55 <phila_> ... So issue 20 is a call for contributions
21:36:13 <pchampin> q?
21:36:14 <phila_> gkellogg: I can put forward the basic infrastructure but it tends to be a lot of fiddly work creating hte inputs and outputs
21:36:37 <phila_> subtopic: https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/20
21:36:39 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/42
21:36:47 <phila_> subtopic: https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/42
21:36:56 <phila_> [Apologies for mess]
21:37:07 <phila_> gkellogg: My proposal is that we close this as being out of scope
21:37:35 <phila_> ... It's about how many spaces to leave off, etc. These are things that serialisers define for me
21:37:41 <phila_> ivan: These are religious discussions
21:37:54 <phila_> gkellogg: Should we have some way of representing how it might be serialised?
21:38:03 <phila_> ... YAML has more capabilities, meta tags etc.
21:38:11 <phila_> ... I don't think it's a duty of this group
21:38:19 <pchampin> q+
21:38:26 <phila_> ack pchampin
21:38:46 <phila_> pchampin: The same kind of question could be asked of JSON. Has it ever been raised?
21:38:54 <phila_> gkellogg: Only in canonicalization
21:38:58 <pchampin> ack pchampin
21:39:02 <phila_> ivan: That has a clear reason, yes
21:39:17 <phila_> ivan: But I don't remember this being discussed in the JSON-LD list
21:39:32 <phila_> pchampin: The RFC for c14n of JSON is about JSON, not JSON-LD
21:40:02 <phila_> gkellogg: My proposal is that we close this as being out of scope
21:40:07 <pchampin> PROPOSED: close issue 42 as out of scope
21:40:09 <pchampin> +1
21:40:12 <TallTed> +1
21:40:14 <gkellogg> +1
21:40:16 <juuso-aut> +1
21:40:19 <Timothe> +1
21:40:19 <ivan> +1
21:40:22 <bigbluehat> +1
21:40:27 <dlehn1> +1
21:40:29 <domel> +1
21:40:51 <pchampin> RESOLVED: close issue 42 as out of scope
21:41:06 <phila_> subtopic: https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/54
21:41:21 <phila_> gkellogg: This involved melding JSON schema with contexts
21:41:44 <manu> q+
21:41:44 <pchampin> q?
21:41:45 <phila_> ... There has been some desire to use context as a schema [paraphrase]
21:41:52 <phila_> ack manu
21:41:58 <pchampin> ack manu
21:42:03 <phila_> manu: Every time we've discussed this, we've decided to keep them separate
21:42:28 <ivan> q+
21:42:31 <phila_> ... We don't want to commit to a schema language. There are different schema languages for different serialisations
21:43:20 <phila_> manu: In the JSON-LD world, even though schema and context play nicely together, I worry about other shape languages and if we commit to using schema for context, we might get into trouble
21:43:25 <pchampin> q+
21:43:28 <phila_> ... So I don't see an argument for mergig the two
21:43:31 <phila_> ack ivan
21:43:34 <pchampin> ack ivan
21:43:37 <bigbluehat> q+ to ask that we stay the simple(r) course :)
21:44:07 <phila_> ivan: I may be out of touch by now but the problem I have with JSON schema is that it's not stable. We offered those folks a W3C WG if they're ready.
21:44:27 <phila_> ... We were turned down as they were on version 7, and from one version to another they may not keep interop
21:44:38 <pchampin> q-
21:44:42 <phila_> ... It's not a stable partner so we can't use it normatively
21:44:56 <gkellogg> q?
21:45:02 <Kristina> Kristina has joined #json-ld
21:45:06 <phila_> ack bigbluehat
21:45:06 <Zakim> bigbluehat, you wanted to ask that we stay the simple(r) course :)
21:45:11 <pchampin> ack bigbluehat
21:45:16 <Orie> There is also OAS, which builds on JSON Schema and defines APIs.... very useful.
21:45:46 <phila_> bigbluehat: I would echo the same things. It seems to be a recurring problem with YAML-LD. All these weird appendages that seems to scrape in other issues
21:46:02 <Orie> +1 to JSON Schema / OAS / YAML stuff being its own spec, not directly related to YAML-LD
21:46:04 <phila_> ... It might be cool, but it would be its own spec and not part f YAML
21:46:22 <Orie> we'll keep using JSON Schema as it is... its working for us.
21:46:27 <phila_> bigbluehat: There would be high hills to climb through JSON-schema's lack of stability (not for lack of interest)
21:46:47 <phila_> bigbluehat: It's not YAML-LD related as such
21:46:50 <Orie> +1 to embedding LD in OAS not being YAML-LD related.
21:46:52 <gkellogg> q+
21:46:58 <phila_> ack g
21:47:19 <phila_> gkellogg: I'd say that we should close this as being out of scope
21:47:33 <ivan> q+
21:47:38 <phila_> ... schemas are closely related to JSON-LD. If there were a subgroup that wanted to pursue this, OK, we can create the repos
21:47:50 <gkellogg> ack ivan
21:48:35 <phila_> ivan: I'd have the more fundamental proposition. It comes back to the misconception - when people look at an RDF vocab, they see it as a constraint. It's not, it's a licence to infer
21:48:41 <pchampin> q+
21:48:48 <phila_> ... A context is a mapping from JSOn to the RDF
21:48:50 <Orie> I'm happy to continue to merge JSON Schema + JSON-LD in CG work :) ... as I said, its been working fine for what we are doing.
21:49:10 <phila_> ... That's very different than a schema language that constrains what is and isn't valid.
21:49:33 <manu> +1 to what Ivan is saying
21:49:36 <phila_> ivan: So even if schema were stable, it's not the right choice as it mixes up vocabs and context. Not the same
21:49:36 <pchampin> q?
21:49:40 <Timothe> +1 totally agree with that
21:49:40 <phila_> ack p
21:49:45 <gkellogg> q?
21:49:50 <mprorock> mprorock has joined #json-ld
21:49:59 <phila_> pchampin: Big +1 that this has noting to do with YAML-LD
21:50:21 <phila_> ... but I must disagree with what Ivan said. There is indeed a misconception of what RDFS etc. do
21:50:33 <phila_> ... this misconception has been reduced now that we have SHACL/ShEx
21:50:50 <phila_> ... we do agree that JSON-LD contexts are not vocabs
21:51:11 <Orie> +1 to comfort defining vocabs though schemas... thats what we do.
21:51:22 <Orie> but thats not what YAML-LD is about...
21:51:26 <mprorock> +1 orie
21:51:33 <Orie> it might be what OAS-LD would be about...
21:51:39 <manu> q+ to note that people do find defining things using JSON Schema.
21:51:45 <phila_> pchampin: It so happens that people are more comfortable sharing a voc as a constraint. I don't thnik there's a probem to map ...
21:51:46 <manu> q+ to note that people do find defining things using JSON Schema useful
21:51:48 <manu> q-
21:51:51 <manu> q+ to note that people do find defining things using JSON Schema useful.
21:52:22 <Orie> See also - https://blog.spruceid.com/introducing-treeldr-a-canopy-across-your-data-schemas/
21:52:27 <phila_> ivan: That's not what I said. Is it possible to combine a JSON schema with SHACL? I'm not sure. Trying to combine those is likely to be difficult.
21:52:49 <manu> q?
21:52:49 <gkellogg> q?
21:52:49 <phila_> ivan: They sort of do the same thing - setting up constraints. But that's not the same as a JSON-LD context
21:52:56 <phila_> pchampin: I agree with that
21:53:18 <phila_> pchampin: The value I see in trying to bring together JSON schema and JSON-LD context - JSON schemas are used to define shared vocabs.
21:53:43 <phila_> pchampin: On the WEb, those terms can have an IRI. They may not be considered an RDF voc, there's low hanging fruit there
21:53:57 <pchampin> q?
21:54:00 <phila_> pchampin: It could make it easier for people to adopt JSON-LD
21:54:00 <mprorock> +1
21:54:03 <pchampin> ack manu
21:54:03 <Zakim> manu, you wanted to note that people do find defining things using JSON Schema useful.
21:54:03 <phila_> ack manu
21:54:10 <mprorock> q+
21:54:33 <phila_> manu: I want to agree with PA - this keeps coming up. The traceability folks have created the ability to take a schema and use that as a context
21:54:38 <Orie> example: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/openapi/components/schemas/credentials/BillOfLadingCertificate.yml ... --> ... https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/gh-pages/contexts/traceability-v1.jsonld#L250
21:54:40 <phila_> ... I think we're going to keep seeing it
21:55:00 <phila_> manu: We are seeing a pattern where people want to create a shape along with a JSON-LD context
21:55:16 <phila_> manu: It's a large discussion than just YAML-LD. It's an ecosystem discussion
21:55:29 <Orie> And for humans: https://w3id.org/traceability#BillOfLadingCertificate
21:55:34 <phila_> manu: This is for the broader LC community
21:55:46 <phila_> ack mprorock
21:56:23 <phila_> mprorock: I think it is a broader ecosystem need. VCs using JSON-LD makes sense, but there's a need to constrain what the VC can contain
21:56:35 <phila_> q+ phila
21:56:43 <pchampin> scribe+
21:56:54 <gkellogg> ack phila_
21:57:05 <gkellogg> ack phila
21:57:08 <pchampin> phila_: one other thing that might come up in RCH is canonicalization against a shape
21:57:36 <pchampin> ... take some data and some shape, and output a canonical form that excludes anything that's not in the shape
21:57:53 <gkellogg> q+
21:58:05 <pchampin> scribe-
21:58:06 <phila_> gkellogg: This sounds like framing
21:58:17 <phila_> gkellogg: Maybe there's something adjacent to framing that can be used
21:58:32 <phila_> ... Might be useful for output formatting
21:58:41 <phila_> ... How do I order the properties of an object etc.
21:58:55 <phila_> gkellogg: JSON objects are unordered
21:59:08 <phila_> ... Lots of discussions about this
21:59:09 <kristina> kristina has joined #json-ld
21:59:25 <pchampin> q?
21:59:29 <pchampin> ack gkellogg
21:59:44 <phila_> gkellogg: I don't think there's any action we can take on this issue, except to point back to this conversation for future ferernce
21:59:52 <Orie> I feel like we have confirmed that "JSON Schema" and "OAS" are not related to YAML-LD.
22:00:05 <phila_> pchampin: There's a comment from Orie that this is not a YAML issue specifically.
22:00:06 <cel> s/ferernce/reference/
22:00:32 <manu> scribe+
22:01:10 <manu> Topic: Issue 63 - YAML Streams and JSON Sequences
22:01:20 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/63
22:01:40 <manu> gkellogg: Touched on this earlier, JSON-LD doesn't have concept of multiple documents. How did we deal w/ YAML streams? Treat each document in there as its own JSON-LD document and process accordingly.
22:02:28 <manu> gkellogg: JSON-LD defined as API, might need sequences API calls and recompose  possibly, YAML-LD, compact things in stream, do them in sequence? Seems that this needs to bounce back up to JSON-LD. Is there an analog?
22:02:33 <pchampin> q+
22:02:36 <bigbluehat> q+
22:03:03 <manu> pchampin: My concern regarding that, I can see a number of use caess, sensor use case earlier.
22:03:19 <pchampin> ack pchampin
22:03:21 <manu> pchampin: I'm not sure if we can come up with a unique way of dealing with those things. That might be just a lack of imagination.
22:03:29 <pchampin> ack bigbluehat
22:04:15 <manu> bigbluehat: Yes, would like to see this happen, not expressly YAML related... YAML's origin is out of mime documents and email containers, where you were sending a bundle that was all inerrelated. First document was foundational, other documents were attachments.
22:05:25 <anatoly-scherbakov> Thank you very much all, I will unfortunately have to leave. It was quite interesting to participate, thank you again!
22:05:28 <manu> bigbluehat: Newline deliminated JSON and JSON -- server sent events, event notifications, JSON - what's coming next... YAML multidoc is understood as a unit together. Context documents being sent together in stream. For most newline deliminted JSON, interesting things to explore here, what's been done for Link header for example on bare JSON documents.
22:05:42 <pchampin> YAML streams in the YAML spec: https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#92-streams
22:06:23 <manu> bigbluehat: For example, if you start w/ context, maybe that context applies to everything in the stream. Where should these happen, where shouldn't they happen, this isn't only about YAML.
22:06:25 <pchampin> q?
22:06:25 <gkellogg> q+
22:06:32 <gkellogg> ack g
22:07:20 <manu> gkellogg: There is a broader concept of LD streams, could have applications in JSON-LD, fits in nicely with YAML... but why not other formats, why not NTriple streams? One could argue that NTriples are another multidocument mechanism since all statements stand on their own.
22:09:02 <manu> gkellogg: There might be a notion of stream documents, each element of stream could have its own format. Does each have its own location? Even though this issue isn't about YAML streams, it begs for additional work for LD Streams and until that happens, with regard to this issue... there are two ways forward, 1) YAML-LD is only defined for streams in a single document, or 2) YAML-LD streams are treated the way multiple script elements are treated,
22:09:02 <manu> that algorithm creates an array, merges content to it, that's the only way you can really do this until something bigger/better happens.
22:09:05 <gkellogg> q?
22:09:16 <manu> phila: Linked Data fragments was similar.
22:09:35 <manu> gkellogg: Yes, it was, had more to do with SPARQL querying...
22:09:41 <bigbluehat> https://linkeddatafragments.org/
22:10:02 <bigbluehat> https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11-streaming/
22:10:15 <manu> gkellogg: There was work done on JSON-LD streaming, but specifically took into consideration open pipe on which you were continuously interpreting.
22:10:29 <manu> gkellogg: These are all references that should be considered.
22:10:52 <pchampin> q?
22:11:10 <manu> gkellogg: We can leave this for a future meeting noting this discussion.
22:11:10 <bigbluehat> JSON-LD Streaming note was about parsing a *single* JSON documents as it was streamed into the parser (which is very different than a stream of individual JSON-LD docs)--just to clarify relationships.
22:11:43 <manu> Topic: YAML-LD Datatypes
22:11:46 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/17
22:12:23 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/79
22:12:24 <manu> gkellogg: We were running against issues w/ existing YAML-LD tool set. Notion of having IRI tags, might be dealt with term within YAML namespace, interpret item as IRI, scalars treated as literals.
22:12:48 <manu> gkellogg: This is of less use given short syntax to create node reference, doesn't buy us much more than that.
22:13:11 <manu> gkellogg: we might be able to define a regex to refer to values, first time validation ... value interpreting as IRI.
22:13:11 <mprorock_> mprorock_ has joined #json-ld
22:13:14 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/83
22:13:19 <gkellogg> q?
22:14:01 <manu> Topic: YAML-LD Primer
22:14:22 <pchampin> https://github.com/json-ld/yaml-ld/issues/81
22:15:17 <manu> gkellogg: There seems to be a desire to not over burden the specification with extra language, desire for Primer -- We will create a  yamlld-primer, and yamlld-bp for best practices, We can then focus on each one.
22:15:45 <manu> ivan: We are fighting in another group to try and figure out a way to do multi-publilcation, let's not bring that here.
22:16:04 <manu> q+
22:16:19 <manu> gkellogg: Does anyone have anything specific they'd like to have in a primer?
22:16:25 <manu> gkellogg: Convenience contexts?
22:16:25 <gkellogg> ack manu
22:16:29 <gkellogg> scribe+
22:16:49 <gkellogg> manu: I'd argue against a Primer. I'm not sure if we have data on how much they're read.
22:17:13 <pchampin> scribe+
22:17:22 <gkellogg> ... If people want to know about it, they typically look at the spec, or Best Practices.
22:17:30 <phila> q?
22:17:30 <pchampin> manu: I don't know how often people read primers
22:17:39 <ivan> q+
22:17:46 <gkellogg> ... I'm not sure we have enough data to validate the effort needed to do this work. Instead, keep it in the spec.
22:17:58 <pchampin> ... That content might be more useful at the begining of the document
22:18:13 <pchampin> ack ivan
22:18:23 <gkellogg> ... If you can't explain it in three n pages, then you probably haven't done a good enough job.
22:18:27 <gkellogg> scribe-
22:18:35 <pchampin> scribe-
22:18:35 <mprorock_> q+
22:19:17 <manu> iherman: The OWL Primer was well received, but it was difficult work to boil those concepts down. There are cases where it works.
22:19:27 <phila> q+
22:19:52 <manu> iherman: We are heading for a case where VCs will be several specifications, that might be a place where a Primer might work well. OWN is complex because there are 2-3 core specifications plus a bunch of additional things.
22:20:29 <manu> iherman: In this case, maybe it's not the case, YAML-LD might only need to be one specification. Then it becomes a matter of personal style.
22:20:35 <gkellogg> q+ to disuss the value of json-ld.org and maybe yaml-ld.org
22:20:41 <gkellogg> ack manu
22:20:43 <pchampin> ack mprorock_
22:20:47 <gkellogg> q= manu
22:20:51 <gkellogg> ack mprorock_
22:21:40 <manu> mprorock: Something inbetween, what is the audience, there is normal webdev folks, the other side is broader linked data developer... when you're coming in from normal enterprise stuff and they come into this, we've gota figure out how to bridge this concepts back here... there is not another resource to introduce people to this.
22:22:04 <pchampin> q+
22:22:09 <manu> mprorock: Who is the Primer for? Normal webdev folks for HTML end user facing content... vs. low level developers using this stuff.
22:22:19 <pchampin> ack phila
22:23:21 <manu> phila: The first W3C spec I read was the RDF primer, which help me understood RDF... suggestion might be, with YAML-LD, could add to RDF 1.1 primer, there is a whole ecosystem here, LD always needs primers... why would you do this? Why is it better?
22:23:51 <manu> mprorock: Yes, especially for people that were not around in the beginning, dealing with a new breed of developers learning Python/Java... they don't have the context, they don't even know what IRC is.
22:23:56 <pchampin> q?
22:23:58 <gkellogg> q?
22:25:00 <manu> iherman: One thing I like in the OWL primer, how has the nice feature for 5 serializations of same concept, not all of them are RDF specific, but what they did is same trick as VC spec, you can choose which syntax you want to see... having Linked Data primer which puts together YAML/JSON-LD for example, can choose and compare like in the VC spec.
22:25:26 <manu> iherman: I think that's very helpful, not to do a YAML primer, but a Linked Data for the masses primer, that would make a lot of sense.
22:26:08 <manu> gkellogg: We need to come back to json-ld.org, its easy to add resources to there, the playground is invaluable, thank you Dave Lehn for keeping this thing going.
22:26:19 <manu> gkellogg: The efforts are appreciated.
22:27:20 <manu> gkellogg: Should we have yaml-ld.org domain? Could have it's own fork of JSON-LD Playground... some of upcoming work on playground might make it more suitable to do that... basic profile of YAML, to get that into something that works w/ jsonld.js -- given there's only so much developer time, having online resources might be better use of our time.
22:27:21 <pchampin> q?
22:27:21 <gkellogg> q?
22:27:24 <manu> ack gkellogg
22:27:24 <Zakim> gkellogg, you wanted to disuss the value of json-ld.org and maybe yaml-ld.org
22:27:43 <gkellogg> ack pchampin
22:28:51 <manu> pchampin: Reconsider if we can put the thig in the front of the spec, unless there is a large amount of specs... we should consider the audience. It was pointed out how JSON-LD was deliberately made easy for end users even if it's more complex for developers. There are different parts of the spec, more for end user, JSON-LD API is more for end developers... that's one thing we should sconsider, Primer could address different audnece thatn spec itself.
22:28:52 <pchampin> q?
22:29:05 <manu> gkellogg: These things are solved by people that step forward to do the work.
22:29:14 <cel> s/sconsider/consider/
22:29:14 <manu> rrsagent, draft minutes
22:29:14 <RRSAgent> I have made the request to generate https://www.w3.org/2022/09/12-json-ld-minutes.html manu
22:48:22 <ivan_> ivan_ has joined #json-ld
23:02:49 <phila> phila has joined #json-ld
23:04:46 <cel> scribe+
23:04:46 <cel> topic: JSON-LD-star
23:05:49 <cel> pchampin: RDF* is an extention of RDF
23:06:02 <gkellogg> s/RDF*/RDF-star/
23:06:11 <cel> ... An RDF-star working group has been created; goal to integrate changes into the RDF specification
23:06:20 <cel> ... A CG report has been published by the RDF-dev WG
23:06:24 <cel> s/WG/CG/
23:06:51 <cel> ... In order to support this, Greg and I have started working on JSON-LD-STAR
23:07:02 <cel> ... Embedded nodes: a special node object representing a quoted triple
23:07:20 <cel> ... You could state a triple whose subject or object is another triple
23:07:42 <cel> ... Important to understand is that the statement is not "endorsed" by the subject
23:08:02 <cel> ... In JSON, we allow the value for @id to be an object
23:08:18 <cel> ... The rest is JSON-LD as usual
23:08:46 <cel> ... The object of belief is this node object [looking at example]
23:09:06 <cel> ... Triple-STAR... want to be able to both assert a triple in your graph, and also quote it as a subject of another triple
23:09:23 <cel> ... Example: "Alice is working for ACME" ["Annotation syntax" slide]
23:09:28 <cel> ... I want to say something about that fact
23:09:49 <cel> ... that it's true since 2019, and the role is seniorManager
23:10:16 <cel> ... In Turtle-STAR we could represent this with three triples in a row... This syntax here is more convenient
23:10:35 <cel> ... New @annotation keyword - we decided to put in the object of the annotated triple
23:11:11 <cel> ... Up to this point "@id": "#acme"... it's JSON-LD as usual. Then "@annotation": {... - this is a quoted triple generated from above
23:11:37 <cel> ... It could be called metadata
23:11:51 <cel> ... Property Graph model...
23:12:03 <cel> ... Given the appropriate content, NGSI could be interpreted as RDF-STAR
23:12:29 <cel> phila: If I have another triple, i.e. working for ACME, does the annotation apply to both?
23:12:34 <cel> pchampin: No, only to one
23:12:39 <cel> phila: But I could make another?
23:12:43 <kdeangs1> q+
23:12:47 <cel> pchampin: You would put it in another block
23:13:04 <cel> ... If you want to annotate triples for the same thing, it has to be repeated. We kept that for RDF-STAR
23:13:12 <cel> ... RDF-STAR is about talking about individual triples
23:13:33 <cel> ... Arguably if you have the same annotation for multiple triples, what you are trying to do is annotate a graph, which is not in scope
23:13:48 <cel> ... Some say RDF should be able to annotate whole graphs rather than individual triples
23:13:54 <cel> gkellogg: that's more what Annotation 3 does
23:13:58 <cel> pchampin: yes
23:14:06 <cel> gkellogg: Key is you have annotations applying to a relationship
23:14:13 <cel> ... You can have as many things as you want in that annotation
23:14:16 <bigbluehat> s/Annotation 3/Notation 3
23:14:24 <cel> ...  You can have other things in the object, but they are not related to that particular annotation
23:14:42 <cel> ... You could say working for ACME Corporation - that would be fine - but the annotation only applies to that relationship
23:14:57 <gkellogg> q?
23:15:22 <ivan_> q+
23:15:29 <cel> KevinDean: annotation applies to the predicate of workingFor... although you could join them together to make a complete statement, the ACME as a subsidiary is separate
23:15:34 <gkellogg> ack kdeangs1
23:15:40 <gkellogg> ack kdeangs
23:15:42 <cel> Mahmoud: Are there limits on what you can put on an annotation?
23:15:52 <cel> s/KevinDean/kdeangs1/
23:16:03 <cel> phila: Yes... the only thing you can't do here is to put an id
23:16:11 <cel> s/phila/Pierre-Antoine/
23:16:17 <cel> ... The subject is the quoted triple.
23:16:23 <cel> ... Except for that, we don't put any limit on it
23:16:32 <cel> gkellogg: Yes, in fact annotations can have annotations.
23:16:42 <Timothe> q+
23:16:44 <cel> Pierre-Antoine: Annotations on annotations, like in Turtle-STARR
23:16:47 <gkellogg> ack ivan_
23:17:02 <mkhraisha> mkhraisha has joined #json-ld
23:17:19 <cel> ivan_: More an RDF-STAR question than JSON-LD-STAR: In this case, are all the statements there valid RDF statements?
23:17:38 <cel> ... Previously you said "Bob is a genius" - this is not asserted; in this case, everything is asserted?
23:17:49 <cel> pchampin: Right. Annotations are useful when a quoted triple in the subject position is also asserted
23:18:16 <cel> ... Basically you don't want to repeat it; since you write it once to assert it, it seems natural to add those annotations after that, without having to repeat that statement in double-brackets
23:18:23 <cel> gkellogg: It's only when the quoted triple is in...
23:18:27 <cel> pchampin: subject position.
23:19:09 <cel> gkellogg: If this was to be expanded out... You could have a quoted triple in the subject or in the object. In Turtle it only works in the object...? Is it symmetric in turtle-star?
23:19:19 <cel> ... The triple has to be asserted, and has to be in the appropriate position?
23:19:27 <cel> pchampin: Yes, same as in Turtle
23:19:36 <cel> ... "Alice is working for ACME" ... "since 2019"
23:20:08 <TallTed> This will almost certainly be more easily comprehended by explaining via Turtle-star notation, and then presenting comparable JSON-LD-star.
23:20:13 <cel> ivan_: We began to discuss this yesterday. If the whole thing there is part of a named graph, that means that all the asserted triples, and the annotation triples, are all part of a named graph
23:20:15 <cel> pchampin: right
23:20:22 <TallTed> q+
23:20:33 <cel> ivan_: Is it possible to make annotation of a triple part of a node graph, where the annotations themselves are not part of the named graph?
23:20:38 <gkellogg> q?
23:20:58 <cel> pchampin: To segregate them, no... then you would have to use the embedded node representation
23:21:09 <cel> ... in Trig-Star, the annotations only work within a given node graph
23:21:22 <cel> ... Maybe there is a way in JSON-LD-STAR, i don't know
23:21:38 <cel> ivan_: I ask because in VCs, people wanted to put additional metadata into a VC structure
23:21:55 <cel> ... A problem is that we have a strict separation of a graph that gets hashed and signed, and annotations that may or may not be part of the graph
23:22:04 <cel> ... We want to use them as metadata that should not influence the signature
23:22:26 <cel> ... That is the case we have here, to put annotations on the graph without them being in the graph (and therefore interfering with the security)
23:22:32 <cel> ... Worth keeping an eye on
23:22:43 <cel> pchampin: Very interesting use case; please submit an issue!
23:22:51 <gkellogg> ack Timothe
23:23:32 <cel> Timothe: I don't understand why you can't put an id on an annotation. Is it something to do with circular statements?
23:23:34 <manu> q+
23:24:05 <cel> gkellogg: The subject of an annotation is the triple. If you put an id on there, it would no longer be an annotation on that triple, it would be on that particular id; that is why it's not alloewd
23:24:14 <cel> Timothe: I would understand it as an id for the triple itself
23:24:17 <manu> q+ to note that the way we made statements about a graph is to use the @graph syntax... concerned about the interplay here, might be conceptually difficult
23:24:26 <cel> ... If you oculd put an id on the triple, you could talk aobut statements...
23:24:37 <gkellogg> q?
23:24:47 <gkellogg> ack TallTed
23:24:50 <cel> TallTed: You can do that, but not using RDF-STAR. This is a new thing; shortcuts for a few things that does not necessarily replace the things we've already been using for 10-15 years now
23:25:11 <cel> ... A few things, fairly confusing to people... 1 is that JSON, no matter how you use it, is a tangled syntax, difficult to read straight off-the-bad
23:25:24 <cel> ... Also using RDF-STAR makes it more complicated
23:25:25 <betehess> betehess has joined #json-ld
23:25:35 <cel> ... I suggest first present it as Turtle-STAR.
23:25:49 <cel> ... Then the comparable JSON-LD-STAR could be presented
23:26:03 <cel> ... [points out error in slide about seniorManager/seniorDeveloper]
23:26:05 <gkellogg> ack manu
23:26:05 <Zakim> manu, you wanted to note that the way we made statements about a graph is to use the @graph syntax... concerned about the interplay here, might be conceptually difficult
23:26:07 <cel> pchampin: Thanks
23:26:19 <cel> manu: I'm concerned about the syntax in general, but specifically around verifiable credentials
23:26:34 <cel> ... The graph annotation has been a touchy subject around VCs. difficult to get the group to understand the most basic graph annotation
23:26:42 <cel> ... This could throw a bomb into people's understanding of verifiable credentials
23:26:52 <cel> ... I understand this could get us there faster, just not sure about choosing to use it
23:26:59 <cel> ... If we're concerned about lone developers understanding it.
23:27:05 <cel> ... Trying to keep to a simpler syntax.
23:27:09 <cel> s/oculd/could/
23:27:31 <cel> ... We may want to see if we could use this in a VC; get feedback from that group, to see if it makes things easier to reason about
23:27:50 <cel> gkellogg: This could be data that could be signed by a credential. Can a credential sign an RDF-STAR graph?
23:28:07 <cel> ... Would there be some use in using JSON-LD-STAR/RDF-STAR in the credential itself, like in an annotation?
23:28:35 <cel> ... Typically I think in VCs you have an object where something's value is a graph, and the other statements are about that graph. That's not an RDF distinction, although JSON-LD makes it conveniently happen.
23:28:45 <cel> ... Is there a way to use this to clean that up? I don't think so, because this is about triples, not graphs.
23:28:53 <manu> q+
23:29:06 <gkellogg> q?
23:29:09 <cel> ... But I think that would be a useful thing to explore, in some group, maybe it would be in RDF-STAR's mandate to consider that, as already out there in the wild
23:29:12 <TallTed> "Unnamed Named Graphs" a/k/a "Blank Graphs"
23:29:25 <cel> ivan_: Problem we might have process-wise; by the time we need a normative reference to these things, it might not be there yet
23:29:41 <cel> ... So we have a problem in the sync of the work. We have a schedule on the RCH WG
23:30:03 <gkellogg> ack manu
23:30:05 <cel> ... I'm a little worried as a staff contact about bringing in RDF-STAR and JSON-LD-STAR into the picture with normative references, that becomes a bit difficult
23:30:06 <phila> q+
23:30:11 <cel> manu: Certainly we don't want to do that for VC 2.0
23:30:23 <cel> ... But a use case to consider; if something blows up, it's a clear sign something is not right
23:30:36 <cel> ... A VC has effectively 3 graphs: the graph of the credential subject, of the credential itself, and of the proof.
23:31:14 <cel> ... You could argue that some of them are annotations... A proof block could be viewed as an annotation of the main graph.  That's a complex enough use case, with broad use, that could show if on the right path
23:31:20 <cel> ... All the complexity is hidden
23:31:20 <gkellogg> q?
23:31:22 <gkellogg> ack phila
23:31:24 <cel> ivan_: That may be a problem
23:31:38 <cel> phila: trying to understand having an annotation on a credential
23:31:45 <cel> ... A credential says "this thing is true"...
23:31:58 <cel> ... You can't stop people from writing gibberish. I could see a case that credentials would say "no annotations"
23:32:04 <cel> manu: Yes, it would just confuse people
23:32:08 <cel> ivan_: We had issues raising that
23:32:29 <cel> gkellogg: Canonical example: Louis Clark believes Superman can fly. Is that something you could sign if expressed in RDF-STAR?
23:32:38 <cel> manu: You could express it today as a verifiable credential
23:32:44 <cel> gkellogg: But can't claim fact...
23:32:56 <cel> manu: VCs are just statements
23:33:05 <gkellogg> q?
23:33:06 <cel> gkellogg: That's the issue...
23:33:40 <cel> TallTed: We know that stuff said in a quoted triple... It's a black box; even though it looks like RDF, not really. Until it's asserted. Then it becomes something you can reason over. Makes sense?
23:33:43 <cel> manu: No
23:33:53 <cel> TallTed: Trying again. Triple "Alice is working for ACME"
23:34:07 <cel> ... Annotation syntax: first we assert it, then annotate with info about the role and year
23:34:28 <cel> ... If we use the quoted syntax instead... We have a triple that says "Bob is a genius". That is a quotation, not a statement
23:34:40 <phila> q+ to tale about embedded node
23:34:43 <cel> ... Alice believes Bob is a Genius. We don't know if that is true... Just that Alice believes something
23:35:04 <cel> pchampin: We know it, because those are the terms in the triple, but we don't really care. It's just a triple, that has those things
23:35:19 <cel> TallTed: If you treat that as a subject-predicat-object triple, it fits into the data model
23:35:27 <cel> ... You can use named graphs to get around this in some ways
23:35:34 <cel> pchampin: I see your point
23:35:46 <phila> q-
23:35:46 <cel> gkellogg: We have a whole working group for RDF-STAR; I encourage participation in that.
23:35:58 <cel> ... This topic was allocated 15 minutes; we've spent 35
23:36:23 <cel> pchampin: Use cases such as the VC one... Issues could be opened.
23:36:35 <cel> ivan_: I didn't realize, I thought JSON-LD-STAR was on the charter of the JSON-LD WG
23:36:45 <cel> gkellogg: JSON-LD was an ongoing WG...
23:36:51 <cel> ivan_: We could put it in the charter...?
23:37:01 <TallTed> here be dragons!
23:37:08 <cel> pchampin: That could work
23:37:34 <cel> phila: I think thinking will be clearer if you have a non-subjective triple
23:37:41 <cel> ... "This box is red"
23:38:02 <cel> pchampin: Alice's belief that the box is red
23:38:21 <kristina> kristina has joined #json-ld
23:38:23 <cel> gkellogg: The ramifications of JSON-LD 1.1 being out there... One concern which goes back to the core WG work...
23:38:24 <TallTed> sure.  `Alice said, "Bob is a genius."` or `Alice said, "Bob has a 250 IQ."`
23:39:01 <bigbluehat> q+
23:39:13 <cel> ... The cost and signalling that happens, in this case... Potentially every access to something which uses JSON-LD, going to fetch the context, even though we have many descriptions about caching and reducing that, we did not put anything in overtly to limit that other than suggestions of how to overcome that
23:39:14 <phila> (aside, what I tried to say is that it's the 'believes' predicate that's the problem, not the annotation)
23:39:19 <cel> ... An ongoing issue that may need some resolution
23:39:25 <cel> ... [JSON-LD 1.1 slide]
23:39:28 <manu> q+
23:39:34 <cel> ... Hash links could help
23:40:09 <bigbluehat> https://twitter.com/danbri/status/1560188981568061442
23:40:28 <TallTed> (re aside -- Yes. Hence my changing from "believes" to "stated." Which is actually the formulation I used months ago, coining this quotation example.)
23:40:29 <cel> bigbluehat: about danbri, this was a conversation Greg, Dan, I and others were having
23:40:46 <cel> ... Mid-stream, it's parcel and part about what JSON-LD should care about
23:40:50 <bigbluehat> very rough review https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Jo4-dTDo1osL3Mr9-THqwKywWu-NiFGagFTQV5mr-N8/edit#
23:40:56 <cel> ... He shares a Google Doc ^
23:41:02 <cel> ... of the situation and his perspective on it
23:41:17 <cel> ... Many folks commented on it, pointing out different options. Dan's scratch pad of working through it
23:41:29 <cel> ... tldr is to just do vocab, and context statements as needed
23:41:59 <cel> ... Interesting comments, pointing out the flaw that Dan is trying to highlight. There is one where Rob says that there is some degree of trust needed, that contexts referencing other contexts is just going to work.
23:42:19 <pchampin> TallTed +1, "believes" also a can of worm.... I made those slides to quickly :-/
23:42:21 <cel> ... Don't think that is going to fly. There has to be some higher level of stability or digitized trust that can be leaned on when doing context resolution
23:42:24 <kdeangs1> q+
23:42:33 <cel> ... I don't think we can ignore those; or it will be built for us.
23:42:49 <ivan_> ack bigbluehat
23:43:16 <cel> gkellogg: Ongoing issue. I think the issue of retrieval of resources on the web is general, it hits everything. Even Turtle, by referencing other vocabularies, is implicitly requiring that those vocabularies be dereferenced for reasoning... subclass relationships... Not typically done...
23:43:25 <cel> ... Typically people take JSON-LD, that requires retrieving
23:43:44 <cel> ivan_: I think there is a difference. In Turtle, if you have the URLs, then the only reason to dereference is if you perform any kind of inference.
23:43:51 <cel> ... As part of the inference process, yes, you fetch those URLs
23:44:03 <cel> ... In JSON-LD, in theory, you have to dereference them every time...
23:44:20 <cel> gkellogg: Every time you use one of the APIs that require it... Expansion...
23:44:24 <kdeangs1> q-
23:44:31 <cel> ... It may be more common in some regimes... SPARQL entailment...
23:45:12 <cel> manu: I know this doesn't fix or change anything; but I don't understand how it's just a JSON-LD problem. Every browser fetches things, affecting how pages render, run JavaScript... Seems like a strange complaint
23:45:33 <cel> ... On an airplane I couldn't work on ReSpec because no WiFi. People don't get upset about that, but about JSON-LD contexts?
23:45:37 <cel> ... Just cache forever.
23:45:48 <cel> ... Even if you use hash-links, you still have to fetch content and cache it.
23:45:50 <pchampin> q+
23:45:56 <cel> manu: Just tell people to cache it?
23:46:01 <ivan_> ack manu
23:46:12 <cel> gkellogg: I suggest if you do some severe rate-limitting, that could solve the problem.
23:46:17 <pchampin> q-
23:46:18 <phila> q+
23:46:28 <cel> manu: e.g. reject every 4th request.
23:46:37 <cel> gkellogg: e.g. exponential delay
23:46:44 <cel> manu: Need to decide where to do this. W3C, IETF...
23:46:53 <cel> ... If we need to push this forward (hash-link spect)...
23:47:00 <cel> s/spect/spec/
23:47:11 <cel> ... On the other side, we'll still get these complaints
23:47:11 <phila> q-
23:47:18 <cel> gkellogg: Basic problem of caching things on the web.
23:47:23 <mkhraisha> q+
23:47:24 <cel> ... Hash links doesn't solve it in and of itself.
23:47:38 <cel> manu: Still will have bad implementations going to the Web every time
23:47:40 <mkhraisha> q-
23:47:43 <cel> Mahmoud: Hash links still useful
23:47:54 <phila> Mention of rate limiting reminds me of work going on right now in the IETF HTTP API WG on this https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpapi-ratelimit-headers
23:48:10 <cel> pchampin: Yes, caching and hash-links provide solutions (to respective problems)
23:48:29 <cel> gkellogg: JSON-LD WG started/ended on August 31st
23:48:49 <cel> gkellogg: YAML-LD work and JSON-LD-STAR work needs the WG
23:48:58 <cel> ... Backlog of issues is on the table for the WG.
23:49:41 <cel> Phillipe: Publishing, I'll get fixed after TPAC. We need a new charter for the upcoming 2 years. My understanding is we keep doing what we're doing. I've prepared a draft charter, sent a link earlier today to it.
23:49:43 <pchampin> https://w3c.github.io/charter-drafts/2022/json-ld-2022.html
23:49:43 <GeunHyung_Kim_> GeunHyung_Kim_ has joined #json-ld
23:49:54 <phila> s/Philippe/plh/
23:50:20 <cel> plh: Shouldn't be controversial at all
23:50:29 <cel> plh: Benjamin still chair, ok?
23:50:32 <cel> bigbluehat: Fine
23:50:41 <cel> plh: Copied some stuff from Wikipedia
23:50:58 <cel> ... Some text to be helpful if never heard of JSON-LD
23:51:13 <cel> ... Added sentence about Community Group
23:51:25 <cel> ... Out of scope didn't change; list of deliverables didn't change
23:51:37 <cel> ... Updated wording; I don't know if in practice it makes any change at all.
23:51:46 <cel> gkellogg: Other deliver about YAML-LD note?
23:51:55 <cel> plh: It's a "such as" - not meant to be restrictive; just as examples.
23:51:59 <cel> ... Coordination section did not change.
23:52:11 <phila> s/Phillipe/plh
23:52:11 <cel> ... Repeating sentence about JSON for Linking Data CG
23:52:24 <cel> ... May want to add sentence about RDF-STAR WG?
23:52:35 <cel> gkellogg: RCH?
23:52:39 <cel> pchampin: Couldn't hurt
23:52:56 <cel> plh: If you want to be reminded to check with a group, it should be listed here.
23:53:11 <cel> ... If not, don't expect to be asked about it
23:53:17 <cel> ... Other sections unchanged.
23:53:29 <cel> ivan_: Would list RDF-STAR and RCH?
23:53:36 <cel> plh: Alright, I'll add those two.
23:54:07 <cel> plh: If you want to work on JSON-LD-STAR in the WG... this is pretty vague; I don't think anything here would restrict you from doing so.
23:54:16 <cel> gkellogg: It is pretty mature; developed in the JSON-LD CG
23:54:39 <cel> ivan_: Would JSON-LD-STAR become a recommendation or a note?
23:54:48 <cel> plh: As a new version of JSON-LD?
23:55:06 <cel> pchampin: RDF-STAR WG will be publishing RDF 1.2 which would include STAR features. That's a new version
23:55:16 <cel> ... Logically it would be JSON-LD 1.2; that's maintenance
23:55:26 <cel> plh: I don't want to prejudice you from making that decision down the line
23:55:30 <cel> gkellogg: The group may want to decide...
23:55:35 <cel> plh: Nothing here would prevent that
23:56:06 <cel> plh: I will start the review of it, crank the wheel. Eventually you'll get a new WG.
23:56:12 <cel> gkellogg: Fortunately the chair doesn't expire
23:56:26 <cel> ivan_: Started the extension?
23:56:29 <cel> plh: I will start it
23:56:36 <cel> ... Just cannot publish TR right now
23:56:51 <cel> pchampin: Out of scope section?
23:57:04 <cel> ivan_: It just says don't do what another WG is doing
23:57:10 <cel> plh: OK, will remove it
23:57:34 <cel> gkellogg: We have all sorts of leftover stuff
23:57:40 <cel> topic: JSON-LD 1.1 API
23:57:53 <cel> gkellogg: Erratum on syntax
23:58:04 <cel> ... [moving through slides 33+]
23:58:19 <cel> ... Most urgent is the erratum. How are they supposed to be addressed?
23:58:36 <cel> ... Pierre-Antoine and I have been working on them, presumably in a vacuum
23:58:52 <cel> ... These are things to be developed in the community group when there is sufficient interest
23:59:06 <cel> ivan_: For erratum, you can do the same thing as the VC WG did in maintenance, publish an update
23:59:21 <cel> gkellogg: I think we should continue to update the erratum document and the editor's draft
23:59:41 <cel> ivan_: There is a process now to republish the recomendation if it's only a certain category of changes
23:59:48 <cel> manu: These are greater changes?
23:59:51 <cel> ivan_: These are all erratum
00:00:02 <cel> gkellogg: One of them is substantive; most are editorial
00:00:23 <cel> manu: Be very careful with the new process; it caught me by surprise that there was an enormous amount of documentation...
00:00:31 <cel> gkellogg: Using the process you went through
00:00:55 <cel> ivan_: As long as editorial, no problem. If you have substantive changes that need to go through AC approval, then there is something very heavily editorial to do...
00:01:18 <cel> ... Produce a document showing the previous and new; not just a diff... Manually create a diff on the parts with substantive changes.
00:01:26 <cel> manu: Have to manually create the diff...
00:01:32 <cel> ivan_: Now there are some tools to make it easier
00:01:44 <cel> gkellogg: API has one substantial issue
00:01:50 <cel> ivan_: Then leave that (open)
00:02:05 <cel> ... Put together all the editorial changes, and get rid of the erratum. It give you a cosy feeling!
00:02:21 <cel> gkellogg: Thank you everyone!
00:02:40 <cel> ... I encourage your continued participation
00:02:54 <manu> rrsagent, draft minutes
00:02:54 <RRSAgent> I have made the request to generate https://www.w3.org/2022/09/13-json-ld-minutes.html manu
00:02:57 <cel> ... Slides will be up; any corrections please send and we'll make them manually
00:05:12 <gkellogg> gkellogg has joined #json-ld
00:05:38 <gkellogg> zakim, end meeting
00:05:38 <Zakim> As of this point the attendees have been anatoly-scherbakov, pchampin, juuso-aut, ivan, TallTed, cel, phila_, mkhraisha, Orie, domel, jvanulde, betehess, bigbluehat, mprorock,
00:05:41 <Zakim> ... kristina, dlehn, GeunHyung_Kim
00:05:41 <Zakim> RRSAgent, please draft minutes
00:05:41 <RRSAgent> I have made the request to generate https://www.w3.org/2022/09/13-json-ld-minutes.html Zakim
