[10:04]	<manu1>	Agenda: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-linked-json/2012Jun/0057.html
[10:04]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/37.3.51.132-00000033) has joined the conference.
[10:05]	<manu1>	voip: 11 is me
[10:05]	<voip-ld>	manu1 is now associated with IAX2/diamondcard-1511.
[10:06]	<manu1>	scribe: tidoust
[10:07]	<tidoust>	manu: Agenda on IRC. Anything else to add?
[10:07]	<tidoust>	gregg: do we want to talk about feedback we got?
[10:07]	<manu1>	Topic: Feedback from RDF WG
[10:07]	<tidoust>	manu: We have two reviews in. A full one and a partial one from EricP
[10:08]	<tidoust>	… I read through seaborne's review
[10:08]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:08]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:08]	<tidoust>	… There are some last call blockers in there. Gregg, do you want to take them one by one or high level overview?
[10:09]	<manu1>	Andy Seaborne's review: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-wg/2012Jun/0080.html
[10:09]	<tidoust>	gregg: High level. There's a related thread on eliminating graphs and using @id-maps instead
[10:09]	<niklasl>	q-
[10:09]	<voip-ld>	Removed niklasl from the speaker queue: (empty)
[10:10]	<manu1>	Eric Prud'hommeaux's review: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-wg/2012Jun/0085.html
[10:10]	<tidoust>	… I think that the point is to put things at risk. Graph has not been entirely embraced by the RDF WG. The notion of named graph is not a closed issue.
[10:10]	<voip-ld>	David I. Lehn (SIP/96.240.174.242-00000034) has joined the conference.
[10:11]	<tidoust>	gregg: the reason that we have put graphs in there. If you have a bunch of objects in an array form, you need some way to put them in a graph. If you have IDs, you wouldn't need graphs.
[10:12]	<tidoust>	manu: I'm still confused as to how you name the graph.
[10:12]	<tidoust>	gregg: let me type something
[10:12]	<gkellogg>	{@context:{}, @graph:[{@id: a}, {@id: b}]}
[10:12]	<tidoust>	gregg: that's what you might have.
[10:12]	<gkellogg>	a: {@id:a, @container: @id}
[10:12]	<tidoust>	… If you have @id-map, you can instead have:
[10:12]	<gkellogg>	{@context: {}, a: {@id: a}, b: {@id: b}}
[10:13]	<tidoust>	gregg: 'a' is a subject ID, and then it references the subject definition. There is no graph.
[10:14]	<tidoust>	… It would allow us to put subjects that are URIs as keys.
[10:14]	<tidoust>	… This is not for the named graph case.
[10:14]	<voip-ld>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-00000035) has joined the conference.
[10:14]	<tidoust>	manu: So there are two problems: how do we name a graph, and how do we use subject identifiers as keys.
[10:15]	<tidoust>	gregg: the original use of graph was not to name graph, it was just as a way to have multiple objects
[10:15]	<tidoust>	… assuming we needed to remove the concept of named graph from JSON-LD, this could be a solution
[10:16]	<tidoust>	manu: I don't know if we need to discuss a solution for if we have to remove named graph from JSON-LD.
[10:16]	<tidoust>	… That seems to be food for last call comments. The RDF WG needs to figure that out.
[10:16]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:16]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:17]	<tidoust>	… It's so fundamental to real case uses that I don't want to remove it right away unless necessary.
[10:17]	<tidoust>	gregg: there was a threat that it might need to be removed. If it is at risk, then we'd better have counter proposals.
[10:17]	-->|	mlnt (~markus@host132-110-dynamic.17-79-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has joined #json-ld
[10:18]	<tidoust>	manu: Ivan even said that he was using language a bit too strong. It's perfectly fine to have things in there that might become at risk in the future.
[10:18]	<tidoust>	… Marking them at risk now sends the wrong message, I think.
[10:18]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:18]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:18]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000036) has joined the conference.
[10:19]	<tidoust>	niklas: named graph is much more complex than a document format for triples. We could use @set instead of @graph if we want to avoid using @graph.
[10:20]	<mlnt>	timezone confusion.. thought it's in an hour
[10:20]	<tidoust>	manu: The concern I have is that if we reopen the discussion, it will mean spending multiple weeks on this whereas we already have a solution.
[10:20]	<tidoust>	… I'd rather have them come up with a strong case about why we need to drop that from JSON-LD
[10:20]	<tidoust>	… Any other strong opinion on this?
[10:21]	<tidoust>	niklas: My feeling is that named graph hasn't been needed in e.g. Turtle.
[10:21]	<tidoust>	manu: I disagree.
[10:22]	<tidoust>	… In our case, there's no name graph support in RDFa, so we end up with all this soup that's more complicated. We have different ways to generate IDs for the graphs and so on.
[10:22]	<tidoust>	… I disagree with the notion that we haven't been needing named graph in RDF/XML, Turtle and so on.
[10:22]	<tidoust>	niklas: I see your point. You have a very good solid use case. Discussions about named graph are much more esoteric.
[10:23]	<tidoust>	… This use case about signature is much more about packaging and transportation of data.
[10:24]	<tidoust>	manu: that's precisely my point. I'd like a list of concrete use cases that we need to solve, to think about solutions that are easy to use for developers.
[10:24]	<tidoust>	… We're coming from the other direction: "this is what we need"
[10:25]	<tidoust>	niklas: I think it's important to highlight this. This can be aligned with existing things in SPARQL.
[10:25]	<tidoust>	manu: Important thing to discuss is how we're going to address feedback from the RDF WG. First thing is to get a feeling tomorrow on whether we need to make further changes to JSON-LD.
[10:26]	<tidoust>	… We could perhaps hand the document over to RDF WG, making necessary patent commitments, publish the FPWD and then move on from there in the RDF WG.
[10:26]	<gkellogg>	q+
[10:26]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: gkellogg
[10:26]	<manu1>	ack gkellogg
[10:26]	<voip-ld>	gkellogg has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:26]	<tidoust>	… Maybe the best way forward is to ask Andy and Eric what precise changes they want to see.
[10:27]	<tidoust>	gregg: they both stated that they didn't see any blockers to FPWD. That's my interpretation.
[10:27]	<tidoust>	manu: right. Just getting confirmation on that would be good.
[10:27]	<tidoust>	… I've heard people say that before and then have issue with publication as FPWD.
[10:28]	<tidoust>	gregg: I suggest we make some of the purely editorial changes that are in there, and then sprikle some issue markers and be done with that.
[10:28]	<tidoust>	manu: do you want to make a pass?
[10:28]	<tidoust>	gregg: yes.
[10:28]	<tidoust>	manu: I'm asking because I don't think I'll have time this week.
[10:29]	<tidoust>	gregg: I think I can do a quick pass.
[10:29]	<tidoust>	manu: Would you mind waiting up until after the call tomorrow to have a clearer view as to what changes might be required?
[10:29]	<tidoust>	gregg: what I really want is to put issue markers.
[10:30]	<tidoust>	manu: ok. Anything else on this topic?
[10:30]	<manu1>	Topic: Linked Data and JSON-LD introductory videos
[10:30]	<gkellogg>	Good job on the videos!
[10:30]	<manu1>	What is Linked Data? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4x_xzT5eF5Q
[10:30]	<tidoust>	manu: I spent some time this week-end to put together two videos on Linked Data and JSON-LD.
[10:30]	<manu1>	What is JSON-LD? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vioCbTo3C-4
[10:30]	<tidoust>	… Introduction to Linked Data and introduction on JSON-LD.
[10:31]	<tidoust>	… I would really appreciate feedback from you guys. Anything that could help improve the videos
[10:31]	<tidoust>	… If they look cheap, stuff to add/remove.
[10:31]	<tidoust>	gregg: I think they are great.
[10:31]	<tidoust>	… I don't have any technical feedback. I'll put that on my queue.
[10:32]	<tidoust>	… It looks to me to be very approachable, so very valuable material.
[10:32]	<tidoust>	manu: One of the things I need to do is to have a transcript.
[10:32]	<tidoust>	… Maybe translating would be good? Francois for instance if you have time?
[10:33]	<tidoust>	… Or maybe in Japanese.
[10:33]	<tidoust>	… We could put the transcript on github and then have people translate it.
[10:33]	<tidoust>	q+
[10:33]	<voip-ld>	Added tidoust to the speaker queue: tidoust
[10:33]	<tidoust>	ack me
[10:33]	<voip-ld>	tidoust has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:33]	<manu1>	ack tidoust
[10:34]	<manu1>	tidoust: The video's are good - they just explain things pretty easily - I don't have time right now... I'm happy to try translating to French. Don't know when I could do it.
[10:34]	<manu1>	tidoust: It would be valuable if you could extract the slides - could you do that?
[10:35]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:35]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:35]	<tidoust>	manu: OK, I'll try to extract the images. I don't have a scanner, though ;)
[10:35]	<taaz>	i can scan them at home for you
[10:35]	<manu1>	Thanks Dave Lehn... will take you up on that offer.
[10:35]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:35]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:36]	<tidoust>	niklas: I just wanted to echo the previous feedback on the quality of the videos. Only had time to watch one.
[10:37]	<tidoust>	manu: anything else on the videos before we move on?
[10:37]	<tidoust>	gregg: just good job!
[10:37]	<manu1>	Topic: ISSUE-26: @vocab support
[10:37]	<manu1>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/26
[10:38]	<tidoust>	manu: question about whether we should put @vocab back in the spec. This is only @vocab. I don't think anyone is trying to put @base back.
[10:38]	<tidoust>	… Almost everyone seems to be willing to bring @vocab back.
[10:38]	<tidoust>	dlongley: I think it would be ok to bring @vocab back in the spec. I'm not totally opposed to it.
[10:39]	<tidoust>	gregg: Markus raised some concerns. I don't know if he's totally on board.
[10:39]	<tidoust>	… To me, it's obvious. Whenever I play with people, @vocab is so useful because it allows to skip the "term" mapping for quick uses.
[10:40]	<tidoust>	manu: Question about @vocab from external JSON-LD context.
[10:40]	<manu1>	PROPOSAL: Support the @vocab keyword for setting a default vocabulary URL for a JSON-LD document.
[10:40]	<gkellogg>	+1
[10:40]	<niklasl>	+1
[10:40]	<manu1>	+1
[10:40]	<dlongley-db>	+1
[10:40]	<tidoust>	+1
[10:40]	<mlnt>	-0
[10:41]	<taaz>	+0
[10:41]	<manu1>	RESOLVED: Support the @vocab keyword for setting a default vocabulary URL for a JSON-LD document.
[10:41]	<tidoust>	manu: Markus, could you outline your concerns?
[10:41]	<mlnt>	can you hear me?
[10:41]	* gkellogg	mint: do you have any audio?
[10:41]	<mlnt>	ok :-)
[10:41]	<mlnt>	was already wondering before :-)
[10:41]	<dlongley-db>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/26#issuecomment-6265997
[10:41]	<mlnt>	my thoughts are basically in the issue
[10:42]	<mlnt>	it adds cognitive overhead: two base IRIs
[10:42]	<mlnt>	issue with external contexts
[10:42]	<tidoust>	manu: Markus says that developers were confused about having to use two base IRIs.
[10:42]	<mlnt>	and the word @vocab itself is a bit confusing itself apparently
[10:43]	<dlongley-db>	q+
[10:43]	<voip-ld>	Added dlongley-db to the speaker queue: dlongley-db
[10:43]	<mlnt>	to what vocab applies.. @type and properties
[10:43]	<manu1>	ack dlongley-db
[10:43]	<voip-ld>	dlongley-db has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:43]	<tidoust>	… I don't think that the main issue is about using prefixes. I just think many developers will just want to use "schema.org" and have JSON-LD documents that are prefix-less.
[10:43]	<mlnt>	will call back in in a sec.. hope to solve audio issues
[10:43]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000036) has left the conference.
[10:44]	<tidoust>	dlongley: I think the confusion is more about how the future will work
[10:44]	<niklasl>	q+
[10:44]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[10:44]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000037) has joined the conference.
[10:44]	<manu1>	ack niklasl
[10:44]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:44]	<niklasl>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/26#issuecomment-5937869
[10:44]	* tidoust	thanks Dave and Gregg
[10:45]	<tidoust>	Niklas: I just want to reference the notion of (in-)transitivity of @vocab. That same notion should apply to @language.
[10:46]	<manu1>	Topic: ISSUE-129: Eliminate duplicates in expansion
[10:46]	<tidoust>	manu: ok, not a discussion for today.
[10:46]	<manu1>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/129
[10:46]	<tidoust>	manu: The question is whether or not we should remove duplicates automatically.
[10:47]	<gkellogg>	q+
[10:47]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: gkellogg
[10:47]	<tidoust>	… If we don't do duplicate elimination, there are follow-up issues.
[10:47]	<manu1>	ack gkellogg
[10:47]	<voip-ld>	gkellogg has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[10:48]	<tidoust>	gregg: In terms of toRDF, you can certainly specify duplicate values. There is nothing wrong in JSON-LD with having multiple values when you generate RDF. The same would happen in Turtle.
[10:48]	<tidoust>	… The graph model would eliminate them on its own
[10:49]	<tidoust>	Dave: It's probably the case that most people that will be using JSON-LD directly without going from/to RDF will be using some kind of duplicate eliminitation. I actually agree with Markus that we should remove duplicates to simplify.
[10:50]	<tidoust>	… The question is how to handle them in the normalization algorithm. At the end of it, we should leave duplicates around in expansion algorithm.
[10:51]	<tidoust>	… In my particular implementation I have a couple of methods. They are going to need to be different for the expansion algorithm. In other parts, you'll want to remove duplicates, but not for the expansion.
[10:52]	* tidoust	lost audio
[10:52]	* manu1	hmm - is anyone else hearing my audio?
[10:53]	<dlongley-db>	no
[10:53]	<voip-ld>	manu1 (IAX2/diamondcard-1511) has left the conference.
[10:53]	<voip-ld>	<unknown> (IAX2/diamondcard-10047) has left the conference.
[10:53]	* manu1	is dialing back in...
[10:53]	<gkellogg>	PROPOSAL: Remove text relating to removing duplicates when expanding JSON-LD documents
[10:54]	* manu1	seems as if our VoIP provider has gone out to lunch - gkellogg, please take over running the call :)
[10:54]	<gkellogg>	+1
[10:54]	<dlongley-db>	+1
[10:54]	<niklasl>	+1
[10:54]	<mlnt>	+1
[10:54]	<taaz>	+0
[10:54]	<manu1>	+1
[10:54]	<gkellogg>	RESOLVED: Remove text relating to removing duplicates when expanding JSON-LD documents
[10:55]	<gkellogg>	Topic: ISSUE-108: IRI templates
[10:55]	<gkellogg>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/108
[10:56]	<dlongley-db>	gkellogg: at some point translating legacy JSON into JSON-LD should be a note but for now it's outside of the scope of what we're trying to accomplish
[10:56]	<dlongley-db>	gkellogg: it's useful and will be common.
[10:57]	<dlongley-db>	mlnt: i agree, we should close the issue and not address it directly in JSON-LD for now.
[10:57]	<gkellogg>	PROPOSAL: Do not add any normative language relating to IRI templates or other transformations
[10:57]	<gkellogg>	+1
[10:57]	<dlongley-db>	+1
[10:57]	<mlnt>	+1
[10:57]	<niklasl>	+0.75 (I've seen potential, but it's reasonably too complex)
[10:57]	<taaz>	+0
[10:57]	<manu1>	+1
[10:57]	<gkellogg>	RESOLVED: Do not add any normative language relating to IRI templates or other transformations
[10:57]	<dlongley-db>	gkellogg: i think that's it for the issues today and given the audio problems we're having i suggest we end the call.
[10:57]	<dlongley-db>	gkellogg: any other issues?
[10:57]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-00000039) has joined the conference.
[10:58]	<dlongley-db>	mlnt: i wanted to ask about a decision made last time, but we can do that on the mailing list.
[10:58]	<dlongley-db>	gkellogg: i think it's pretty clear in the audio log what we were trying to accomplish, but if you raise an issue we can put it on the agenda next time.
[10:58]	<dlongley-db>	gkellogg: bye everyone
[10:58]	<voip-ld>	Gregg Kellogg (SIP/10.0.1.18-00000032) has left the conference.
[10:58]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-00000039) has left the conference.
[10:58]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-00000037) has left the conference.
[10:58]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/37.3.51.132-00000033) has left the conference.
[10:58]	<voip-ld>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-00000035) has left the conference.
[10:58]	<voip-ld>	David I. Lehn (SIP/96.240.174.242-00000034) has left the conference.
