[Tue 10:00]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-000000b2) is in the conference.
[Tue 10:00]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-000000b2) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:00]	<voip-ld>	Gregg Kellogg (SIP/71.202.225.162:56757-000000b3) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:00]	<voip-ld>	<unknown> (IAX2/diamondcard-1320) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:00]	<kuykepau>	voip: 1320 is pkuyken
[Tue 10:00]	<voip-ld>	pkuyken is now associated with IAX2/diamondcard-1320.
[Tue 10:00]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/sip2sip.info-000000b4) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:00]	-->|	mlnt (~markus@net-2-34-217-54.cust.dsl.vodafone.it) has joined #json-ld
[Tue 10:02]	<voip-ld>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-000000b5) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:02]	<m4nu>	Agenda: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-linked-json/2013Sep/0093.html
[Tue 10:04]	<m4nu>	scribe: mlnt
[Tue 10:02]	<m4nu>	manu: Agenda is there, anything else that we should add?
[Tue 10:03]	<m4nu>	gkellogg: Yeah, Niklas raised an issue for fromRDF got lost during a re-write
[Tue 10:03]	<niklasl>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/91#issuecomment-25046309
[Tue 10:03]	<m4nu>	gkellogg: There were no tests for it since we weren't testing that option.
[Tue 10:03]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-000000b6) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:03]	<m4nu>	manu: We need to also talk about OData alignment.
[Tue 10:04]	<m4nu>	Topic: Candidate Recommendation Feedback
[Tue 10:04]	<voip-ld>	dlehn (SIP/192.168.1.178:5060-000000b7) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:05]	<mlnt>	manu: we had two basic items - useRdfType bug and OData Alignment
[Tue 10:05]	<mlnt>	... anyone know of any other CR feedback we got?
[Tue 10:05]	<mlnt>	No other CR feedback from implementers.
[Tue 10:05]	<mlnt>	Topic: Spec Bug with useRdfType flag
[Tue 10:05]	<m4nu>	Let's take Niklas' issue first, which is here - https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/91#issuecomment-25046309
[Tue 10:05]	=-=	kuno is now known as warp
[Tue 10:06]	<mlnt>	niklas: we used to have an option in the serialize RDF to JSON-LD algorithm to not use @type but rdf:type
[Tue 10:06]	<mlnt>	gregg: it was called useRdfType
[Tue 10:06]	<voip-ld>	dlehn (SIP/192.168.1.178:5060-000000b7) has left the conference.
[Tue 10:07]	<mlnt>	niklas: I mainly need that to ensure that the value is always an array (I can't control that for @type)
[Tue 10:07]	-->|	noosk (~Thunderbi@ALyon-258-1-136-134.w90-53.abo.wanadoo.fr) has joined #json-ld
[Tue 10:08]	<mlnt>	... to keep the shape of the data deterministic
[Tue 10:08]	<mlnt>	... another use case might be to have the type as an object itself
[Tue 10:08]	<mlnt>	... but that's more a speculative demand
[Tue 10:09]	<mlnt>	manu: looking at the commits it definitely looks like an unintended bug
[Tue 10:09]	<gkellogg>	q+
[Tue 10:09]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: gkellogg
[Tue 10:09]	<mlnt>	... if that's the case, we should be able to fix this without going through another LC/CR
[Tue 10:10]	<mlnt>	manu: the other thing is the question markus raised.. if we introduce this: do we look for @type or rdf:type
[Tue 10:10]	<m4nu>	ack gkellogg
[Tue 10:10]	<voip-ld>	gkellogg has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 10:10]	<mlnt>	niklas: I think the question is interesting in it's own right
[Tue 10:11]	<mlnt>	... the data may be produced in different ways so we always have to deal with this
[Tue 10:11]	<mlnt>	... and there's currently no way to turn rdf:type to @type or vice versa AFAIK
[Tue 10:12]	<mlnt>	gregg: if we put this back in, it would make sense to write tests for it
[Tue 10:12]	<mlnt>	... not sure what the consequences are
[Tue 10:12]	<mlnt>	manu: yeah, that's a grey area.. people could argue we introduce a new feature that wasn't there (tested) before
[Tue 10:12]	<mlnt>	... meaning we would need to go through another LC
[Tue 10:13]	<m4nu>	mlnt: we never really discussed @type or rdf:type before.
[Tue 10:14]	<m4nu>	gkellogg: I implemented it, I thought the text went in that resolved that.
[Tue 10:14]	<m4nu>	gkellogg: Did we have spec text to deal w/ this issue?
[Tue 10:14]	<niklasl>	.. https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/commit/956c76f99e6bd60a0742b5b29c6061a838bbb3ba#L0L3410
[Tue 10:14]	<m4nu>	mlnt: How does the consumer of the data know whether to look for @type or rdf:type?
[Tue 10:16]	<gkellogg>	[[ 3.6) If property is rdf:type and the useRdfType option is not present or false:
[Tue 10:16]	<gkellogg>	3.6.1) Append the string representation of object to the array value for the key @type, creating an entry in value if necessary. ]]
[Tue 10:17]	<mlnt>	gregg: another option could be to move this out to a separate (CG) spec
[Tue 10:17]	<mlnt>	niklas: I think I agree
[Tue 10:17]	<pkuyken>	The latest reference to useRdfType I could find in the spec itself was http://json-ld.org/spec/ED/json-ld-api/20121225/
[Tue 10:17]	|<--	lmatteis has left zoe-fn (Ping timeout: 264 seconds)
[Tue 10:18]	<mlnt>	mlnt: Paul, here's the link to the commit in which I removed it accidently: https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/commit/956c76f99e6bd60a0742b5b29c6061a838bbb3ba#L0L3410
[Tue 10:19]	<mlnt>	gregg: perhaps we do this in a next version or in a separate spec
[Tue 10:19]	<mlnt>	niklas: that would be an issue for me
[Tue 10:19]	<mlnt>	gregg: I was suggesting to have something like a supplementary note or CG document not really wait for a 1.1 spec
[Tue 10:21]	<mlnt>	niklas: Having it in the current algorithm would make it clear that RDF-to-JSON-LD may contain rdf:type and/or @type
[Tue 10:22]	<mlnt>	gregg: we could just as well have options in expand/compact to keep @type as array
[Tue 10:22]	<mlnt>	niklas: right.. and in principle I would prefer that
[Tue 10:23]	<mlnt>	q+
[Tue 10:23]	<voip-ld>	Added mlnt to the speaker queue: mlnt
[Tue 10:23]	<m4nu>	ack mlnt
[Tue 10:23]	<voip-ld>	mlnt has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 10:23]	<m4nu>	mlnt: The question I asked myself is - do we need to specify all of this? Every implementation can do what it wants. Do we want to require every implementation to do that?
[Tue 10:24]	<m4nu>	mlnt: If we do that, we have to update the test suite.
[Tue 10:24]	<m4nu>	mlnt: Even if that option is not in the standard, all implementations can support it anyway. The API doesn't even have toRDF and fromRDF methods anymore.
[Tue 10:24]	<m4nu>	niklasl: Having the option lets people know that there is variability there.
[Tue 10:25]	<m4nu>	mlnt: I agree, but I don't find it important enough to have to go through another LC.
[Tue 10:25]	<mlnt>	manu: there are multiple options
[Tue 10:26]	<mlnt>	... a) re-introduce useRdfType and nothing else
[Tue 10:26]	<mlnt>	... b) also add tests, that would probably mean another LC
[Tue 10:27]	<mlnt>	... c) put it in a different spec/note because we don't have an API for it anyway at the moment
[Tue 10:28]	<mlnt>	niklas: the problem with that is that I expect to encounter this issue in a Java implementation or something.. so it affects the algorithms but not necessarily the API
[Tue 10:29]	<mlnt>	manu: the fourth option is d) re-introduce a variation of useRdfType which would allow us to go through another LC
[Tue 10:29]	<mlnt>	gregg: my suggestion is to update the spec to include useRdfType but do not add tests
[Tue 10:30]	<voip-ld>	Dave Lehn (SIP/6003-000000b8) has joined the conference.
[Tue 10:30]	<mlnt>	gregg: we should probably discuss this with W3C staff
[Tue 10:31]	<mlnt>	manu: we are ready to leave CR
[Tue 10:31]	<mlnt>	... we'll try to fix this bug if it doesn't mean another LC
[Tue 10:32]	<mlnt>	... otherwise we'll fix it in the next version
[Tue 10:32]	<mlnt>	... would that be ok Niklas?
[Tue 10:32]	<mlnt>	niklas: yes
[Tue 10:33]	<mlnt>	manu: so is the consensus to re-introduce useRdfType and nothing else (no tests)?
[Tue 10:33]	<kuykepau>	q+
[Tue 10:33]	<voip-ld>	Added kuykepau to the speaker queue: kuykepau
[Tue 10:33]	<mlnt>	gregg: I think we should talk about the long term goal of the test suite
[Tue 10:33]	<mlnt>	... we should have a way to update it as we did with RDFa
[Tue 10:34]	<mlnt>	manu: I think so.. we should be able to react to bugs etc.
[Tue 10:34]	<mlnt>	... we have a frozen test suite for going through CR
[Tue 10:34]	<mlnt>	... but in a couple of months we should be able to add tests without going through the whole process again
[Tue 10:35]	<mlnt>	q+
[Tue 10:35]	<voip-ld>	Added mlnt to the speaker queue: kuykepau, mlnt
[Tue 10:35]	<m4nu>	ack kuykepau
[Tue 10:35]	<voip-ld>	kuykepau has the floor. The next speaker is mlnt.
[Tue 10:35]	<mlnt>	paul: I have a few concerns with that approach
[Tue 10:36]	<mlnt>	... it's a bit of handwaving
[Tue 10:36]	<mlnt>	... we have a lot of options and not all of them are tested properly
[Tue 10:36]	-->|	PaulCapestany (~PaulCapes@204.28.124.82) has joined #json-ld
[Tue 10:36]	<mlnt>	manu: if that's the reaction, we rip the option out again
[Tue 10:37]	<m4nu>	ack mlnt
[Tue 10:37]	<voip-ld>	kuykepau has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 10:37]	=-=	kuykepau is now known as pkuyken
[Tue 10:37]	<m4nu>	mlnt: We have control over most of the implementations in the implementation report, can't we simply add the test and run the reports again?
[Tue 10:37]	<m4nu>	mlnt: We do say that the group will decide when the test suite is of good quality.
[Tue 10:37]	<m4nu>	mlnt: 1st of October is the earliest date, doesn't mean we have to exit today.
[Tue 10:38]	<mlnt>	manu: excellent point
[Tue 10:38]	<mlnt>	... I think that gives us a way out
[Tue 10:38]	<mlnt>	... we fix the bug in the spec, add a test, wait for implementations
[Tue 10:38]	<mlnt>	paul: I like that
[Tue 10:38]	<voip-ld>	There are no speakers in the queue.
[Tue 10:39]	<gkellogg>	q+ To ask about correctness of test-suite when copied to W3C space
[Tue 10:39]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: gkellogg
[Tue 10:40]	<m4nu>	PROPOSAL: JSON-LD 1.0 and the API will remain in Candidate Rec for an additional week to fix a bug in the spec related to the useRdfType flag and add an additional test. After the spec text has been fixed, and a test created, implementers will be required to file new implementation reports. Once they have done so, the specs will exit CR.
[Tue 10:40]	<pkuyken>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<m4nu>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<gkellogg>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<niklasl>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<dlongley>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<mlnt>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<taaz>	+1
[Tue 10:40]	<m4nu>	RESOLVED: JSON-LD 1.0 and the API will remain in Candidate Rec for an additional week to fix a bug in the spec related to the useRdfType flag and add an additional test. After the spec text has been fixed, and a test created, implementers will be required to file new implementation reports. Once they have done so, the specs will exit CR.
[Tue 10:41]	<m4nu>	Topic: OData Alignment
[Tue 10:42]	-->|	gavinc (~gavin@barad-dur.carothers.name) has joined #json-ld
[Tue 10:42]	<m4nu>	 Feedback from Michael Pizzo at Microsoft on OData alignment - http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-linked-json/2013Sep/0079.html
[Tue 10:43]	<m4nu>	so, change stuff like - "@type" to "@jsonld.type" and "@context" to "@jsonld.context"
[Tue 10:43]	<mlnt>	manu: the OData community is asking us to change all keywords to use a "@jsonld." prefix.
[Tue 10:43]	<gkellogg>	q-
[Tue 10:43]	<voip-ld>	Removed gkellogg from the speaker queue: (empty)
[Tue 10:43]	<gkellogg>	q+
[Tue 10:43]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: gkellogg
[Tue 10:43]	<mlnt>	... we can do that already because we can alias keywords
[Tue 10:44]	<mlnt>	... it seems part of it is not understanding that JSON-LD is lower-level than OData and part is not understanding keyword aliasing in JSON-LD (or the JSON-LD Context in general)
[Tue 10:44]	<mlnt>	... prefixing everything with a prefix containing a dot makes it difficult to work with in JavaScript. Additionally, the prefix could be ignored entirely by developers that alias it to something else.
[Tue 10:44]	<mlnt>	... the other thing is that OData could be implemented on top of JSON-LD since it's more of a schema and less of a markup language.
[Tue 10:45]	<m4nu>	ack gkellogg
[Tue 10:45]	<voip-ld>	gkellogg has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 10:45]	<mlnt>	gregg: just wanted to say that putting a dot in a key is incompatible with MongoDB
[Tue 10:45]	<mlnt>	... and as Manu said, every key except @context can be aliased
[Tue 10:46]	<mlnt>	... that being said, I'm sympathetic to having some kind of namespacing mechanism.
[Tue 10:47]	<mlnt>	dlongley: another way to look at is is to say that "@jsonld." is the default namespace so we don't need to change anything
[Tue 10:47]	<mlnt>	manu: I have trouble understanding what problem we're trying to address here. Why do we need a standard namespacing scheme for metadata languages?
[Tue 10:47]	<niklasl>	q+
[Tue 10:47]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[Tue 10:47]	<mlnt>	... why would someone like to layer meta-languages beside each other? Seems like a complex solution to a problem that we haven't encountered in the 4 years that we've been developing this spec. Even if someone had this problem, they are probably overengineering the solution to it.
[Tue 10:48]	<m4nu>	ack niklasl
[Tue 10:48]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 10:48]	<mlnt>	gregg: that's the same question as Microdata and RDFa in HTML
[Tue 10:48]	<mlnt>	niklas: I agree. Seems like they are trying to convert JSON to XML but we've seen that that doesn't solve any problem
[Tue 10:49]	|<--	scor has left zoe-fn (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[Tue 10:49]	<mlnt>	paul: Our company  tried to go down the OData route early on
[Tue 10:49]	<mlnt>	... some of their features (vocabs etc.) do allow to be aligned with RDF
[Tue 10:50]	<mlnt>	... so that may be the motivation behind it
[Tue 10:50]	-->|	lmatteis (uid3300@gateway/web/irccloud.com/x-qpxgjutwidacvnmb) has joined #json-ld
[Tue 10:50]	<mlnt>	dlongley: you can already do what they want to do... you have a context in JSON-LD defining everything. Then you just use the OData JSON-LD Context. 
[Tue 10:50]	<mlnt>	paul: exactly, that's the reason why we did chose JSON-LD - flexibility to do what Michael is asking for.
[Tue 10:51]	<mlnt>	manu: nothing stops Microsoft layering OData on top of JSON-LD
[Tue 10:51]	<mlnt>	... they can simply use the @odata. prefix
[Tue 10:51]	<mlnt>	... it's not clear what changing all properties to use a @jsonld. prefix would buy us other than a standard mechanism for metadata languages to namespace metadata language-specific keywords. None of the people using JSON-LD seem to have this problem right now. 
[Tue 10:52]	<mlnt>	... on the other hand, making this change would break existing JSON-LD content out there, it would cause us to go through another Last Call and CR, delaying the process by months. It would also make the markup problematic when using it with document-based databases like MongoDB. So, there are a number of downsides with no clear upside.
[Tue 10:54]	<mlnt>	paul: I think the group is right.. it is a solution to a non-problem
[Tue 10:54]	<mlnt>	manu: let's try to get Microsoft on a call to talk about it, maybe there is something deeper here that we're missing.
[Tue 10:55]	<mlnt>	gregg: this is not unlike the activity streams group which doesn't want to use JSON-LD's media type and also doesn't want to include a @context property
[Tue 10:55]	<mlnt>	dlongley: looks like they want to avoid conflicts between keywords and other properties.. that's exactly what the context is for in JSON-LD.
[Tue 10:56]	<m4nu>	Topic: Updating the Implementation Report
[Tue 10:56]	<mlnt>	manu: we need to wait for the updated implementation report, we need to add the useRdfType test.
[Tue 10:56]	<mlnt>	gregg: we are also waiting on an updated report from the Java implementation
[Tue 10:56]	<mlnt>	... we'll probably get one by next week
[Tue 10:58]	<gkellogg>	http://json-ld.org/test-suite/reports/
[Tue 10:58]	<mlnt>	gregg: the current implementation report lists 7 implementations
[Tue 10:58]	<mlnt>	... 6 pass 100% of the tests
[Tue 10:59]	<stain>	(just slightly related) I have just updated the jsonld-java bindings for Jena btw
[Tue 11:00]	<m4nu>	Great, thanks stain, that's very helpful to know
[Tue 11:00]	<mlnt>	niklas: I might use this additional week to submit a report of my implementation as well
[Tue 11:00]	<mlnt>	gregg: It would be great if we would have an implementation in C
[Tue 11:01]	<mlnt>	dlongley: we have an old C++ implementation if someone wants to update it
[Tue 11:02]	<mlnt>	paul: unfortunately I can't submit a report for our C# implementation
[Tue 11:02]	<m4nu>	Topic: W3C Hosted Version of Test Suite
[Tue 11:04]	<mlnt>	gregg: there's still the question if we want to run the final test suite from w3.org instead of json-ld.org
[Tue 11:07]	<m4nu>	Discussion related to static location of JSON-LD test suite.
[Tue 11:07]	<niklasl>	.. just recalled this Java-based implementation of JSON-LD: http://semarglproject.org/ Not sure about its status, but the RDFa 1.1 support is solid. Might want to ping Lev Khomich about a report.
[Tue 11:08]	<mlnt>	Discussion about how to freeze a working version of the JSON-LD test suite.
[Tue 11:10]	<mlnt>	mlnt: Niklas, http://semarglproject.org/conformance.html: Works in JSON-LD-RDF Converter mode. At this moment only supports conversion to RDF.
[Tue 11:10]	<gkellogg>	We could update documentation here: http://www.w3.org/2013/json-ld-tests/
[Tue 11:14]	<mlnt>	gkellogg: or we update http://json-ld.org/test-suite/reports/ to include the instructions and mirror that
[Tue 11:13]	<m4nu>	ACTION: Manu to write up instructions on running the Candidate Recommendation Test Suite.
[Tue 11:15]	<gkellogg>	actually, not /reports, just /test-suite, which could include /reports/
[Tue 11:16]	<mlnt>	mlnt: Gregg, I meant /reports because it doesn't link to anything else on json-ld.org
[Tue 11:14]	<m4nu>	Topic: Plan for Proposed Recommendation
[Tue 11:15]	<mlnt>	manu: I think our plan is to delay exiting CR by at least a week to re-introduce useRdfType. Then, we'll get all of the implementation reports together. Then we'll move to have the RDF WG move the work to Proposed Rec. We don't have many changes to the spec, so that should be fast. Then there is the mandatory 7 day waiting period, then meeting with W3C Management to approve the publication as a Proposed Rec. When W3C publishes the Proposed Recommendation, we'll have to wait 4 weeks for the votes to trickle in. After the votes are in, we'll have a W3C Recommendation... we already have the minimum votes to make it, I believe. So, we should have a W3C Recommendation within 6-8 weeks from now.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	Dave Longley (SIP/6002-000000b5) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	pkuyken (IAX2/diamondcard-1320) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	Gregg Kellogg (SIP/71.202.225.162:56757-000000b3) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	Manu Sporny (SIP/6000-000000b2) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	Dave Lehn (SIP/6003-000000b8) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	Niklas Lindström (SIP/sip2sip.info-000000b4) has left the conference.
[Tue 11:19]	<voip-ld>	Markus Lanthaler (SIP/sip.linphone.org-000000b6) has left the conference.
