[Tue 10:04]	<manu-db>	Agenda: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-linked-json/2013Jan/0052.html
[Tue 10:05]	<manu-db>	scribe: manu-db
[Tue 10:05]	<manu-db>	Topic: ISSUE-204: Design Issue with Relative IRIs and Compaction
[Tue 10:06]	<manu-db>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/204#issuecomment-12528503
[Tue 10:07]	<niklasl>	q+
[Tue 10:07]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[Tue 10:07]	<manu-db>	manu: Dave Longley was implementing this feature and found that the decision we made last week keeps us from implementing something pretty important for PaySwarm. It prevents us from using terms for @ids, so something like this: "rateType": "FlatAmount" isn't allowed anymore, where FlatAmount should expand to http://purl.org/payswarm#FlatAmount
[Tue 10:09]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: So, if it's a relative IRI, it's fine, right?
[Tue 10:09]	<manu-db>	manu: We'll it's not a relative IRI, it's a term. The decision we made on the call last week makes it impossible to use a term in @id.
[Tue 10:09]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: Ah, I see. I don't agree that it doesn't allow it... we made a decision on syntax, not a decision about semantics.
[Tue 10:10]	<manu-db>	niklasl: I think it's an issue, and I thought this might be an issue when we made the decision. We may want a new thing like @symbol (or @term) for this use case. I would not want to revert a decision on @id itself because of the problem with relative IRIs. We did that to stay aligned with the treatment of values in the resource attribute of RDFa. If you want something for type coercion, we need a new keyword that would have the lexical scope the same as what in RDFa is a term or CURIE or IRI.
[Tue 10:11]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I don't see how this is any different from a CURIE, why doesn't it just expand?
[Tue 10:11]	<manu-db>	manu: We already support CURIEs, but we removed terms because of the potential to conflict with relative IRIs.
[Tue 10:12]	<manu-db>	manu: Niklas, I'm confused to how what you're proposing would solve the issue.
[Tue 10:12]	<niklasl>	Right now, we can do this in the context - "@type": {"@id": "rdf:type", "@type": "@id"}
[Tue 10:12]	<niklasl>	we could add a feature to do this: "@type": {"@id": "rdf:type", "@type": "@symbol"}
[Tue 10:12]	<manu-db>	niklasl: So, you would do something like this in @context: - "rateType": {"@type": "@symbol", "@id": "http://purl.org/payswarm#rateType"}
[Tue 10:13]	<manu-db>	manu: Yeah, downside being added complexity to terms. I think relative IRIs cause more harm than it helps, do we really need them?
[Tue 10:13]	<manu-db>	niklasl: I think it's common practice to have IRIs and URLs as relative - they want to put that into JSON and add a context.
[Tue 10:14]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: This is done in RDFa and TURTLE and most every other RDF serialization.
[Tue 10:14]	<manu-db>	niklasl: RDFa is almost too close - processing terms in JSON-LD in @id is over-the-top for my acceptable-risk level.
[Tue 10:14]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: But you're okay with having relative IRIs, you might do resource="#this", that's fine?
[Tue 10:15]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: Is it a relative IRI that has a form of a term? Yes. Do we try to protect users from themselves or not? If we try to protect them, there is no end to it. The same argument goes for relative URIs.
[Tue 10:17]	=-=	linclark|afk is now known as linclark
[Tue 10:18]	<niklasl>	In turtle, that'd be expressed like: <…> :rateType :FlatAmount .
[Tue 10:18]	<manu-db>	niklasl: If you use a context which defines terms like that, then the risk is there. People won't understand why things are not working until it's too late.
[Tue 10:19]	<manu-db>	niklasl: We could do ./ for relative IRIs
[Tue 10:19]	<mlnt>	No, that's problematic as well - ./#fragment != #fragment if base is something like ../some/path/file
[Tue 10:19]	<manu-db>	manu: ./ doesn't seem like it would fix all the corner cases. We really need this feature for PaySwarm because developers have said that having colons in things like rateType are confusing. Why can they use colon-less things on the left, but things on the right need colons? It doesn't lead to markup that's easy to understand for beginners. We want this stuff to look as close to the JSON folks use today as we can.
[Tue 10:20]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: What about fragment identifiers? What about empty string for relative IRIs?
[Tue 10:20]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I don't think ./ helps. There are a number of things that we can do ./#foo is wrong, "" expanding to "./" is wrong
[Tue 10:21]	<manu-db>	niklasl: If there wasn't a heritage for relative IRIs, this would be easier. Web documents have been published with just words (relative IRIs) in href/src for ages. It would be bad to not support it.
[Tue 10:21]	<mlnt>	q+
[Tue 10:21]	<voip-ld>	Added mlnt to the speaker queue: niklasl, mlnt
[Tue 10:21]	<manu-db>	niklasl: The bottom-line is that IRIs are different from terms.
[Tue 10:21]	<manu-db>	ack niklasl
[Tue 10:21]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The next speaker is mlnt.
[Tue 10:21]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: This seems like a reasonable thing to do in JSON-LD, using relative IRIs.
[Tue 10:22]	<manu-db>	mlnt: Why couldn't you you do this? "rateType": "ps:FlatAmount"
[Tue 10:23]	<niklasl>	Since we have a distinct lexical scope which we use for predicates and type references, I think a keyword representing that is useful. It's not more complex, it's just explicit.
[Tue 10:23]	<gkellogg>	q+
[Tue 10:23]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: niklasl, gkellogg
[Tue 10:25]	<gkellogg>	Isn't the restriction on using terms just for the value of @id?
[Tue 10:25]	<manu-db>	mlnt: They don't have to know the right-hand side is an IRI - it's an argument for CURIEs...
[Tue 10:26]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: Terms are restricted to the value of an @id.
[Tue 10:26]	<manu-db>	manu: No, that's not the problem I don't think. If we have this - "foo": "blah"
[Tue 10:27]	<manu-db>	manu: and we have this in the context: "blah": "http://example.org/vocab#blah", "foo": {"@id": "http://example.org/vocab#foo", "@type": "@id" }
[Tue 10:29]	<mlnt>	Keep in mind that "foo": "blah" is equivalent to "foo": { "@id": "blah" }
[Tue 10:29]	<niklasl>	Given the implied base IRI <http://example.com/doc>, blah becomes <http://example.com/blah> per our current rules.
[Tue 10:30]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: That is illegal - the compacted form would be illegal if foo did not have a @type of @id.
[Tue 10:30]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I don't think there is an issue here - you can compact it back down to "blah".
[Tue 10:31]	<manu-db>	manu: That's not the decision I thought we made last week.
[Tue 10:31]	<manu-db>	mlnt: If you type coerce it to @id, isn't that equivalent?
[Tue 10:31]	<niklasl>	So, you're saying this is illegal if "blah" is a term? "foo": {"@id": "blah"}
[Tue 10:31]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: Semantically, they mean the same thing - syntactically, it's illegal.
[Tue 10:32]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: It'll compact back to just using "blah" if "foo" has a @type of @id. If it didn't have a @type of @id, it would compact back down to a node reference and you couldn't compact it back down to blah.
[Tue 10:32]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: If foo was defined with xsd:integer, you wanted to use foo - you would have to use the long form - the object form for the IRI.
[Tue 10:33]	<manu-db>	manu: So, two things going on here syntax vs. semantics. When we make the rule that a term cannot be put in the value of @id, we're talking about the syntax - not the semantic meaning.
[Tue 10:34]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think this solves this conundrum - there really isn't a problem. 
[Tue 10:34]	<niklasl>	I think we disabled it for @id because a relative IRI could be mistaken for a term or vice versa. I think the value of a property, even if it is type coerced to @id, when you process it you process it as @id, I don't think we can distinguish it when processing.
[Tue 10:34]	<manu-db>	mlnt: I dont' think that's the decision we made.
[Tue 10:34]	<niklasl>	What's difference between "foo": {"@id": "blah"} versus "foo": "blah" where foo is coerced to @id ?
[Tue 10:34]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: When I voted on this, I thought it was a syntactic restriction - if it wasn't, I would change my vote.
[Tue 10:34]	<manu-db>	manu: When I voted for it, I didn't realize we were introducing this limitation.
[Tue 10:35]	<manu-db>	mlnt: Wouldn't a simple technical solution be to just compact to a relative IRI if there is no term that collides.
[Tue 10:35]	<manu-db>	mlnt: It might not be a good idea, but it would be easy to debug.
[Tue 10:35]	<manu-db>	niklasl: I don't know if I like that.
[Tue 10:35]	<manu-db>	manu: I'd be fine with it, Dave Longley didn't like that.
[Tue 10:37]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: This is a short-hand for the same syntactic construct...
[Tue 10:38]	<manu-db>	niklasl: The problem remains... which is accidentally introducing bad data.
[Tue 10:39]	<manu-db>	manu: Two potential solutions here - what Niklas proposed, and adding 'term' back into the allowed types for @id (which could lead to uncompated IRIs). It doesn't seem like we're close to consensus and we've burned through 40 minutes of telecon time. Any objections to move on in our Agenda? We should discuss potential solutions in the issue tracker.
[Tue 10:39]	<manu-db>	Topic: ISSUE-211: Potential ambiguity when setting default language
[Tue 10:39]	<manu-db>	https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/211
[Tue 10:40]	<manu-db>	manu: We had general agreement that this isn't an issue.
[Tue 10:41]	<manu-db>	markus: The question is whether or not we take the default language into account when applying a term - the algorithms are written this way. Perhaps we should add a sentence or two to the syntax spec to make this clear.
[Tue 10:42]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think the spec is clear, let's close this issue.
[Tue 10:42]	<manu-db>	General agreement in the group to close the issue with no change.
[Tue 10:43]	<manu-db>	Topic: Approach to Algorithms
[Tue 10:43]	<manu-db>	manu: I don't know how much headway we can make on this.
[Tue 10:44]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: My concern is that things need to be easy to understand in the spec, so let's table this until Dave makes more progress.
[Tue 10:44]	<manu-db>	manu: Dave's been busy reading both Markus' and Gregg's updated algorithms. He is implementing most of it, but introducing his own algorithms for the things that could be simplified. He will update the spec text when he is done.
[Tue 10:48]	<gkellogg>	manu: general approach of dave's algorithms is to simplify and ensure that there is a prose header that accurately describes the inputs and outputs of the algorithms.
[Tue 10:48]	<gkellogg>	… He has a simplified version of reverse contexts that should be easy to use.
[Tue 10:49]	<gkellogg>	… He also plans to run with Markus' restatement of term selection, which had broad support.
[Tue 10:49]	<gkellogg>	manu: probably not going to make Last Call (LC) by end of January for the JSON-LD Algorithms and API.
[Tue 10:50]	<gkellogg>	markus: can we change the algorithms after we're in last call?
[Tue 10:50]	<gkellogg>	manu: it's a gray area. We could enter into LC and then modify the algorithms, but if they change some corner-case that would make it a big change, causing us to go through another LC.
[Tue 10:51]	<manu-db>	markus: When can we go to LC?
[Tue 10:52]	<manu-db>	manu: At any time, really - when we're ready. What we should make sure is that all of the editor's are on-board with the algorithms before going to LC. If we don't do that, we increase the risk of having to go through another LC. So, better to put off the LC than go into it prematurely.
[Tue 10:52]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think the RDF WG was just concerned about making sure that we're really close to LC, for the extension of their charter. We're very close with the API spec, so let's wait for Dave's changes and go from there.
[Tue 10:53]	<manu-db>	Topic: Remaining Editorial Work for JSON-LD 1.0 Specification
[Tue 10:54]	<manu-db>	manu: I went through the spec with a fine-toothed comb and fixed a number of editorial issues. I've done Sections 1-5, Advanced section is next. There are a few problems with the spec at this point: 1) we use some terminology before we define it, 2) we introduce some concepts in the basic section that should be in the advanced section. Overall, I think the flow of the document has suffered by consolidating sections.
[Tue 10:57]	<taaz>	after looking at recent commits, you all might want to coordinate a common whitespace, indentation, and html style.
[Tue 10:57]	<manu-db>	manu: I think that's the least of our worries. These documents go through so many edits that it's difficult to keep that stuff well organized. We can do a code-formatting run after the docs are out of Last Call or Candidate Rec.
[Tue 10:58]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: We do want to be consistent with words - for flow, most of us are used to reading these things in a browser, so you can go back-and-forth easily enough for the terminology issue... unless there are people that print these specs out to read them.
[Tue 10:58]	<manu-db>	markus: The other problem is that sometimes we have to repeat things, so we should consolidate
[Tue 10:58]	<manu-db>	markus: It would be simpler to combine certain sections into a single section.
[Tue 11:00]	-->|	PaulCapestany (~PaulCapes@204.28.124.82) has joined #json-ld
[Tue 11:00]	<gkellogg>	q+
[Tue 11:00]	<voip-ld>	Added gkellogg to the speaker queue: niklasl, gkellogg, gkellogg
[Tue 11:00]	<manu-db>	manu: I am strongly against combining some of the sections in the way they've been combined. It used to be that you would get a very gradual introduction to the JSON-LD, that is no longer true for the spec, and that's a very bad thing. There are some things in the basic section that need to be moved to the advanced section, they are too much for a first-time reader to grasp.
[Tue 11:02]	<manu-db>	ack niklasl
[Tue 11:02]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The next speaker is gkellogg.
[Tue 11:02]	<manu-db>	ack gkellogg
[Tue 11:02]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The next speaker is gkellogg.
[Tue 11:02]	<manu-db>	ack gkellogg
[Tue 11:02]	<voip-ld>	niklasl has the floor. The speaker queue is empty.
[Tue 11:02]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think there are two issues here - one is editorial coordination, a need for us to communicate before we make big changes unilaterally.
[Tue 11:03]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: There might be a little more harmony if we discuss an approach together and proceed on that general approach. The second is the specifics of this, the form of the syntax document.
[Tue 11:03]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think it had a pretty nice flow before all the way up to advanced concepts, if that means simplifying examples, then that's good.
[Tue 11:03]	<pkuyken>	I hope I'm not speaking out of turn, but as a newcomer to reading the JSON-LD specs, I agree with what Manu is saying regarding the spec hitting with advanced topics right off and explaining things far later in the document.
[Tue 11:03]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think we should leave the more nasty details to section 6.
[Tue 11:03]	<gkellogg>	Paul, that's good input.
[Tue 11:05]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: One of the things we're trying to convey is that an important part of JSON-LD is that it's simple... we should keep it that way in the beginning of the spec.
[Tue 11:09]	<manu-db>	manu: I also don't like that we've chipped away at the Design Goals and Rationale section. We've gotten rid of the stream-based processing bit. That's a shame, we should try to say what it said before in a way that works for everybody.
[Tue 11:16]	<manu-db>	manu: Specifically, I think these examples need to move to the advanced section: example 1 should be simplified, that would simplify example 2. Example 6, 7, and 8 should all go in the advanced section. Section 5.1.1 should go to advanced.  Example 12, 13, and 16 should go to advanced. String Internationalization could go to advanced.
[Tue 11:17]	<manu-db>	markus: I don't want Link relationship example to be moved to advanced concepts.
[Tue 11:18]	<manu-db>	markus: I also don't want @vocab overriding moved to advanced.
[Tue 11:18]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I don't agree - overriding is more advanced of a concept.
[Tue 11:18]	<manu-db>	niklasl: I agree.
[Tue 11:19]	<manu-db>	niklasl: Prefix expansion could be in Basic... but perhaps not - I could go either way.
[Tue 11:19]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think the simple use of JSON-LD is using terms and not CURIEs.
[Tue 11:19]	<niklasl>	true
[Tue 11:20]	<niklasl>	q+
[Tue 11:20]	<voip-ld>	Added niklasl to the speaker queue: niklasl
[Tue 11:20]	<manu-db>	manu: The advanced section is okay with the flow, I guess. Some of them are difficult to compare - how should we introduce them, in what order? 
[Tue 11:21]	<manu-db>	niklasl: If it's hard to compare the relative difficulty of advanced concepts, then perhaps having to introduce them in the same order as the basic section would be good.
[Tue 11:21]	<manu-db>	markus: Should Data Model and JSON-LD Grammar be appendixes since they're normative?
[Tue 11:22]	<manu-db>	manu: I like them as an appendix.
[Tue 11:22]	<manu-db>	niklasl: Yeah, they could be a normal section.
[Tue 11:22]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think the consensus was that there was no problem with having a normative appendix.
[Tue 11:23]	<manu-db>	markus: It looks weird if all normative statements are in an appendix.
[Tue 11:23]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: This is supposed to be the primary entry point for folks - that's why it's in an appendix, I think it works pretty well, other than having the issue of term definitions.
[Tue 11:23]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: Some people may print this out and try read it.
[Tue 11:24]	<pkuyken>	The Data Model and Grammar sections also end up having lots of definitions that are almost required to understand the concepts from the earlier sections. Having some reference in the terms section to point there would be helpful
[Tue 11:24]	<pkuyken>	By the way, I print the specs so can write on them.
[Tue 11:26]	<manu-db>	Discussion Data mModel and Grammar not being in an appendix, end result is to keep it as an appendix unless we get feedback to the contrary from the LC reviews.
[Tue 11:26]	<manu-db>	Topic: Editor/Author Attribution Order
[Tue 11:29]	<manu-db>	manu: I'm always hesitant to have these sorts of discussions too often, but it came up because the Editor's agreed to move Mark Birbeck's name from the Author section to the Acknowledgements section and give him a few sentences thanking him for RDFj (which spurred the JSON-LD work, some of which is based on RDFj concepts). Markus also moved Dave Longley to the end of the Author's list for the Syntax spec, which was a big problem.
[Tue 11:29]	<manu-db>	manu: I think Markus was looking at this when he made the decision: https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/graphs/contributors
[Tue 11:29]	<manu-db>	manu: I don't think making authoring/editorial decisions based solely on number of commits is a good idea. I think all of us have a pretty good feeling for who contributed what and how much, so this discussion is to try and come to a consensus about that. 
[Tue 11:29]	<manu-db>	manu: Ownership over anything is always dicey and can create bad feelings. We want to be fair to everyone, most people value their contributions more than others because they know what went into their contributions. Some folks are better at asking for recognition than others, some are too generous, others not so much. So, that's why we need to have the discussion - to pick an order that is fair. This is the current order:
[Tue 11:30]	<manu-db>	http://json-ld.org/spec/latest/json-ld-syntax/
[Tue 11:30]	<manu-db>	http://json-ld.org/spec/latest/json-ld-api/
[Tue 11:31]	<manu-db>	manu: Any thoughts before I present an ordering?
[Tue 11:32]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: I think that Markus has done a great deal of work, and I'd be happy to switch with him on the list. I also want to make sure my contribution is recognized. There is more to putting these specs through the process than just writing them. You need to know what to write, what to change, what not to write, implement, manage expectations with other groups, coordinate, bug triage, think deeply about the problem, etc.
[Tue 11:34]	<manu-db>	gkellogg: Manu, you have the most spec experience. This is a charged thing, I want to be known for the contributions I made to this, but also want to be fair to all.
[Tue 11:34]	<taaz>	there is always the fallback to alphabetical order
[Tue 11:34]	<manu>	I abhor alphabetical order because I think it's about as unfair as you can get when listing contributions to a particular document. Many of us have put in hundreds of hours into this specification, to list people alphabetically is just wrong. We should identify who did the most work, gather consensus around it, and that should be the order. That is what's fair.
[Tue 11:34]	|<--	tidoust has left freenode (Quit: tidoust)
[Tue 11:39]	<manu-db>	manu: The proposal is to keep the authors in the JSON-LD 1.0 syntax as is, as that reflects reality.
[Tue 11:39]	<manu-db>	manu: The proposal for the JSON-LD Algorithms and API spec would be Editors: Markus, Gregg, and Manu. Authors: Dave, Gregg, Markus, Manu
[Tue 11:40]	<niklasl>	+1
[Tue 11:40]	<gkellogg>	+1
[Tue 11:40]	<manu-db>	+1
[Tue 11:41]	<mlnt>	+1
[Tue 11:41]	<manu-db>	Manu: Then that's settled and wasn't nearly as painful as I was dreading. Good to know we're all on the same page. We have to make the acknowledgements section better - definitely for Mark. We need to add Ivan and Stephane as well (and Lin if she's not already on there).
