15:55:07 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #json-ld
15:55:11 <RRSAgent> logging to https://www.w3.org/2024/06/12-json-ld-irc
15:55:11 <Zakim> RRSAgent, make logs Public
15:55:12 <Zakim> please title this meeting ("meeting: ..."), gkellogg
15:55:16 <gkellogg> meeting: JSON-LD CG
15:55:31 <gkellogg> agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/08563546-30fd-497a-ac16-77f96e96e8c0/20240612T120000/
15:55:31 <agendabot> clear agenda
15:55:31 <agendabot> agenda+ Announcements and Introductions
15:55:31 <agendabot> agenda+ YAML-LD
15:55:31 <agendabot> agenda+ CBOR-LD
15:55:31 <agendabot> agenda+ JSON-LD Issue Discussion
15:55:33 <agendabot> agenda+ Open Discussion
15:55:36 <agendabot> agenda+ Next call
15:55:42 <gkellogg> chair: gkellogg
15:55:44 <gkellogg> present+
15:55:46 <gkellogg> scribe+
15:55:58 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
15:55:58 <Zakim> agendum 1 -- Announcements and Introductions -- taken up [from agendabot]
15:58:42 <niklasl> niklasl has joined #json-ld
15:59:28 <TallTed> present+
16:00:15 <anatoly-scherbakov> anatoly-scherbakov has joined #json-ld
16:01:32 <anatoly-scherbakov> present+
16:01:37 <niklasl> present+
16:01:38 <bigbluehat> present+
16:02:02 <gkellogg> gkellogg: tentative TPAC schedule at https://www.w3.org/2024/05/tpac2024-schedule-20240523.html#g49174
16:02:19 <bigbluehat> q+
16:02:35 <gkellogg> ack bigbluehat
16:03:55 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: There is a requested schedule shift, as many participants are in Japan and late friday would be early saturday, but that creates a conflict with the CG time on Thursday.
16:05:06 <gkellogg> ... WoT would like the 14:30 slot on Thursday, which is a joint meeting with JSON-LD WG/CG.
16:05:47 <gkellogg> ... WoT is a major user of JSON-LD, so it will be important for us to sync up with them.
16:06:58 <gkellogg> gkellogg: I'm in favor of consolodating with the Thursday afternoon slot.
16:07:13 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
16:07:13 <Zakim> agendum 2 -- YAML-LD -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:07:47 <gkellogg> anatoly-scherbakov: I have some PRs with tests that have been merged. I have some more test issues to work through.
16:08:12 <gkellogg> ... I may need some changes to PyLd to address some issues in my implementatino.
16:08:25 <gkellogg> s/implementatino/implementation/
16:09:03 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
16:09:03 <Zakim> agendum 3 -- CBOR-LD -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:09:25 <dlehn> present+
16:09:25 <gkellogg> zakim, close item 3
16:09:25 <Zakim> agendum 3, CBOR-LD, closed
16:09:26 <Zakim> I see 3 items remaining on the agenda; the next one is
16:09:26 <Zakim> 4. JSON-LD Issue Discussion [from agendabot]
16:09:29 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
16:09:29 <Zakim> agendum 4 -- JSON-LD Issue Discussion -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:09:44 <gkellogg> https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/84
16:10:07 <gkellogg> subtopic: https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/425
16:10:08 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/425 -> Issue 425 how to "retype" rdf:JSON to geo:geoJSONLiteral? (by VladimirAlexiev)
16:12:14 <gkellogg> gkellogg: using `@container` might work.
16:13:58 <gkellogg> dlehn: Is this round-trippable?
16:14:35 <gkellogg> gkellogg: I believe so, but that needs to be figured out.
16:15:01 <gkellogg> dlehn: The JSON Literal already has problems with arrays.
16:15:46 <niklasl> "stuff": [{"@json": [1, 2, 3], "@type": "cdt:List"}] -- might work
16:16:27 <gkellogg> dlehn: Consider w3c/json-ld-api#599
16:16:28 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/599 -> CLOSED Issue 599 Test new GH action (by pchampin)
16:16:55 <gkellogg> dlehn: Consider w3c/json-ld-api#559
16:16:55 <niklasl> (IIRC "@container": ["@language", "@set"] is a thing already; so e.g. "@container": ["@set", "@json"] would work too I guess.)
16:16:55 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/559 -> Pull Request 559 Add JSON literal tests. (by davidlehn)
16:17:07 <gkellogg> dlehn: and w3c/json-ld-api#560
16:17:07 <gb> https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/560 -> Issue 560 Various `@json` processing issues. (by davidlehn) [test:missing-coverage] [ErratumRaised]
16:17:42 <gkellogg> dlehn: This is where I was trying to figure out these issues for `@json`.
16:18:56 <gkellogg> ... It may be that the solutions can be treated similarly.
16:19:28 <gkellogg> gkellogg: I think we can handle this through scope allowed through the re-charter.
16:19:58 <gkellogg> niklasl: I need to look more at the details.
16:21:27 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
16:21:27 <Zakim> agendum 5 -- Open Discussion -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:22:34 <dlehn> q+
16:22:39 <gkellogg> subtopic: JSON-LD-star
16:22:54 <gkellogg> gkellogg: I think we can start working on JSON-LD-star issues again.
16:22:56 <niklasl> +1
16:22:57 <gkellogg> ack dlehn
16:23:15 <gkellogg> dlehn: Do you see the specs merging?
16:24:46 <niklasl> Yes. Some form of RDF-star is intended to be part of RDF 1.2, and then JSON-LD 1.2 would follow.
16:24:53 <gkellogg> gkellogg: It's part of RDF 1.2, so should be part of JSON-LD 1.2 as well.
16:24:58 <gkellogg> q?
16:25:24 <pchampin> present+
16:26:42 <gkellogg> gkellogg: I'd like to see some updates to RDC that consider RDF-star.
16:26:56 <gkellogg> dlehn: Does this flow into SHEX and SHACL and so forth?
16:27:15 <gkellogg> TallTed: Those projects are independent, but the expectation is that they will evolve.
16:27:30 <gkellogg> ... The new SPARQL group could pick up ShEx.
16:28:21 <gkellogg> ... Rather, the SHACL group could adopt ShEx.
16:29:43 <gkellogg> dlehn: The lack of support for datasets is an issue.
16:30:10 <gkellogg> ... I'd rather work with SHACL than JSON Schema.
16:30:37 <gkellogg> TallTed: If you're working with JSON, then JSON Schema is a good way to go.
16:31:38 <gkellogg> TallTed: Note that SHACL isn't about semantics, it's a syntactical verifier. It's not like RDB referential integrity.
16:32:32 <gkellogg> q?
16:32:54 <gkellogg> subtopic: charter renewal
16:33:11 <gkellogg> pchampin: No recent progress.
16:34:01 <gkellogg> ... We should be able to submit our request soon.
16:34:26 <gkellogg> ... There were some comments by bigbluehat about scope and adding a new document.
16:35:17 <gkellogg> subtopic: Website
16:35:40 <gkellogg> dlehn: We're looking to host on Cloudflare; I wasn't sure how to deal with .htaccess.
16:35:57 <gkellogg> ... How much do we need to continue to support?
16:37:06 <gkellogg> gkellogg: CORS headers?
16:37:22 <gkellogg> dlehn: I'm not sure what we have in there is live or not.
16:38:48 <gkellogg> ... There is a temporary website; it's just .htaccess stuff that is a problem.
16:39:24 <dlehn> https://json-ld-org.pages.dev/
16:40:08 <gkellogg> gkellogg: maybe look at server logs to see what features are used.
16:42:52 <bigbluehat> q+
16:43:04 <gkellogg> gkellogg: I would say move it over, and we'll deal with issues that come up.
16:43:09 <dlehn> https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/778
16:43:10 <gb> https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/issues/778 -> Issue 778 RFCs (by davidlehn)
16:43:10 <bigbluehat> q+ to ask TPAC questions toward the end
16:43:56 <gkellogg> dlehn: I need to write up some stuff about RFC; there are things DB is doing that should be standardized.
16:45:04 <gkellogg> ... For example, safe mode.
16:47:59 <gkellogg> q?
16:48:09 <gkellogg> ack bigbluehat
16:48:09 <Zakim> bigbluehat, you wanted to ask TPAC questions toward the end
16:48:44 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: I think filing issues against an existing spec is ideal, but may not be clear what this should be.
16:49:14 <gkellogg> ... Is the json-ld.org issues repo the right place, or one of the specs.
16:49:27 <gkellogg> dlehn: I have an idea for this, but need to write up a proposal.
16:50:27 <gkellogg>  gkellogg: perhaps discuss next time?
16:50:32 <gkellogg> zakim, next item
16:50:32 <Zakim> agendum 6 -- Next call -- taken up [from agendabot]
16:50:48 <gkellogg> Next call June 26.
16:51:25 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: We have conflicts with VCWG; our joint meeting with RDF-star conflicts with VCWG.
16:51:46 <gkellogg> ... If we try to move things around we may run into problems.
16:53:16 <gkellogg> ... We may need to work with RDF-star to move that particular meeting time.
16:53:49 <gkellogg> pchampin: RDF-star meets on Tuesday and Thursday mornings. If we move to Tuesday morning, we'd conflict with DID, but that might not be a problem.
16:54:46 <gkellogg> ... Tuesday is not critical; I can ask Alex to make the change. I don't think the RDF-star chairs have a preference.
16:55:05 <gkellogg> bigbluehat: There's also the federated identity WG which has conflicts.
16:56:27 <gkellogg> zakim, end meeting
16:56:27 <Zakim> As of this point the attendees have been gkellogg, TallTed, anatoly-scherbakov, niklasl, bigbluehat, dlehn, pchampin
16:56:29 <Zakim> RRSAgent, please draft minutes
